# bchi.bigcitieshealth.org health datasets
* [Adult Seasonal Flu Shot - All demographics](https://bchi.bigcitieshealth.org/d/ki5w-fmh2) - This dataset illustrates health status of 26 of the nation’s largest and most urban cities as captured by 34 health (and six demographics-related) indicators. These indicators represent some of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the United States and leading priorities of national, state, and local health agencies. Public health data were captured in nine overarching categories: HIV/AIDS, cancer, nutrition/physical activity/obesity, food safety, infectious disease, maternal and child health, tobacco, injury/violence, and behavioral health/substance abuse.
* [Big Cities Health Data Inventory](https://bchi.bigcitieshealth.org/d/rwyf-6cby) - This dataset illustrates health status of 26 of the nation’s largest and most urban cities as captured by 34 health (and six demographics-related) indicators. These indicators represent some of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the United States and leading priorities of national, state, and local health agencies. Public health data were captured in nine overarching categories: HIV/AIDS, cancer, nutrition/physical activity/obesity, food safety, infectious disease, maternal and child health, tobacco, injury/violence, and behavioral health/substance abuse.
* [Seasonal Flu Shot: Roll-up by city + age](https://bchi.bigcitieshealth.org/d/i5qz-87hs) - This dataset illustrates health status of 26 of the nation’s largest and most urban cities as captured by 34 health (and six demographics-related) indicators. These indicators represent some of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the United States and leading priorities of national, state, and local health agencies. Public health data were captured in nine overarching categories: HIV/AIDS, cancer, nutrition/physical activity/obesity, food safety, infectious disease, maternal and child health, tobacco, injury/violence, and behavioral health/substance abuse.
