# brigades.opendatanetwork.com health datasets
* [HUD Public Housing Buildings](https://brigades.opendatanetwork.com/d/pxz9-8dqj) - Public Housing was established to provide decent and safe rental housing for eligible low-income families, the elderly, and persons with disabilities. Public housing comes in all sizes and types, from scattered single family houses to high-rise apartments for elderly families. There are approximately 1.2 million households living in public housing units, managed by some 3,300 housing agencies (HAs). HUD administers Federal aid to local housing agencies (HAs) that manage the housing for low-income residents at rents they can afford. HUD furnishes technical and professional assistance in planning, developing and managing these developments. Public Housing Buildings depict the physical location of each individual building. If the building has more than one entrance or street address, the address with the highest number of units and best possible geocode was chosen to represent the location of the building. Location data for HUD-related properties and facilities are derived from HUD's enterprise geocoding service. While not all records are able to be geocoded and mapped, we are continuously working to improve the address data quality and enhance coverage. Note that this file only includes x, y coordinates and associated attributes for those addresses that can be geocoded to an interpolated point along a street segment, or to the centroid of the nearest U.S. Census block. Please consider this issue when using any datasets provided by HUD.* [U.S. Energy Information Administration API](https://brigades.opendatanetwork.com/d/2n56-tdmk) - The U.S. Energy Information Administration is committed to making its data available through an Application Programming Interface (API) to better serve our customers. An API allows computers to more easily access our public data. By making EIA data available in this machine-readable format, the creativity in the private, the non-profit, and the public sectors can be harnessed to find new ways to innovate and create value-added services powered by public data.

Currently, EIA's API contains the following main data sets:
• 408,000 electricity series organized into 29,000 categories
• 30,000 State Energy Data System series organized into 600 categories
• 115,052 petroleum series and associated categories
• 11,989 natural gas series and associated categories
• 132,331 coal series and associated categories (released Feb 25, 2014)
• 3,872 Short-Term Energy Outlook series and associated categories (released May 27, 2014)
• 368,466 Annual Energy Outlook series and associated categories (released May 27, 2014)* [HFD Event and Response Counts by Station](https://brigades.opendatanetwork.com/d/4ytv-5qdx) - Various counts of EMS, Fire, and Total event and responses by station for the Houston Fire Department. Each Event can occur for more than one station. Therefore, the number of events per station is NOT totaled for the City and should not be used to represent the total number of events for the City.* [Affordable Housing Zillow Rental Indexes](https://brigades.opendatanetwork.com/d/597j-e4ps) - The Zillow Rent Index (ZRI) tracks the monthly median rent in particular geographical regions. We sought to create an index for rents that is unaffected by the mix of homes for rent at any particular time. This makes temporal comparisons of rents more valid since the index is tracking the rents for a consistent stock of inventory. It also makes it easier to compare the ZHVI and ZRI since they are based on a similar set of homes whereas traditional metrics tracking rent and sale prices are often based on markedly different sets of homes (often located in different neighborhoods), thus making comparisons less valid.* [NC Health Datapalooza Portal](https://brigades.opendatanetwork.com/d/24hp-ssxr) - 17 uploaded datasets & 26 links to open health datasets from CDC, Medicare, Medicare Physician Billing Data, NC Health Plans, MIDAS, Substance Abuse