# census.data.commerce.gov health datasets
* [Manufactured Homes Survey](https://census.data.commerce.gov/d/krdd-5u5a) - The Manufactured Homes Survey (MHS) provides current monthly estimates of new manufactured (mobile) homes placed for residential use and dealer inventories. Data collected include manufacturer's date of shipment, sales price, date of placement for residential use, placement location (state, county, and community), how titled, and home physical characteristics such as foundation, number of bedrooms, floor area, and air conditioning. The Bureau of Economic Analysis uses the data as an input to estimates of residential fixed investment. The Department of Housing and Urban Development uses the data to monitor total new housing production and its affordability. Trade associations use the data for housing market analysis. Manufacturers and their suppliers use the estimates to monitor trends in prices and characteristics (e.g., floor area, number of bedrooms, presence of central air-conditioning).* [2006-2010 American Community Survey  5-Year American Indian and Alaska Native Tables](https://census.data.commerce.gov/d/em69-9wjc) - The 2006-2010 ACS 5-Year American Indian and Alaska Native Tables (AIANT) use ACS data aggregated over a 5-year period to provide reliable estimates of detailed social, economic, and housing characteristics for many tribal population groups at multiple levels of geography. Detailed tables on topics such as educational attainment, fertility, nativity, citizenship, income, poverty, and homeownership are iterated for many tribal population groups. For the AIAN, detailed tables are presented for up to 950 population groups in selected geographies such as American Indian and Alaska Native areas where population thresholds were met.* [2006-2010 American Community Survey  5-Year Selected Population Tables](https://census.data.commerce.gov/d/hb94-2qx3) - The 2006-2010 ACS 5-Year Selected Population Tables (SPT) use ACS data aggregated over a 5-year period to provide more reliable estimates of detailed social, economic, and housing characteristics for many race, tribal, Hispanic, and ancestry population groups at multiple levels of geography. Detailed tables on topics such as educational attainment, fertility, nativity, citizenship, income, poverty, and homeownership are iterated for many racial and ethnic population groups.  For the SPT, detailed tables are presented for up to 392 population groups in geographies down to the tract level where population thresholds were met.* [Services Annual Survey](https://census.data.commerce.gov/d/ugrv-rm42) - Provides estimates of revenue and other measures for most traditional service industries. The Bureau of Economic Analysis uses these data in its preparation of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), national income and product accounts, and its benchmark and annual input-output tables. The Bureau of Labor Statistics uses the data as input to its producer price indexes and in developing productivity measurements. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) uses the data to estimate expenditures for the National Health Accounts. The Coalition of Service Industries uses data for general research and planning. Trade and professional organizations use the estimates to analyze industry trends and benchmark their own statistical programs, develop forecasts, and evaluate regulatory requirements. The media use estimates for news reports and background information. Private businesses use the estimates to measure market share; analyze business potential; and plan investment decisions.