# chhs.data.ca.gov health datasets
* [Patient Discharge Data by Admission Source](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/5mri-8dmr) - This chart displays the distribution of inpatient discharges by source of admission for each California hospital for years 2009-2015.
* [Central Line-Associated Bloodstream Infections (CLABSI) in General Care, 2013](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/brzt-4pvr) - Wards General Care Areas include the following types of locations: stepdown general care locations specializing in patients that are hemodynamically stable; medical general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of nonsurgical conditions; medical/surgical general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of medical and/or surgical conditions; surgical general care locations providing evaluation and treatment for pre- or post-surgical conditions; long-term acute care locations specializing in patients requiring an extended stay in an acute care environment; rehabilitation general care locations providing care to patients who have lost function; labor, delivery, postpartum general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of normal and high risk pregnancy patients; behavioral general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of patients with acute psychiatric or behavioral disorders; jail general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of patients who are in custody of law enforcement during their treatment; and pediatric general care locations providing evaluation or treatment to any patient less than or equal to 18 years of age for any medical or surgical condition. This table shows the hospital-specific central line-associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI) data by patient care locations classified as Wards. The CLABSI data for each hospital patient care location include number of CLABSIs, central line-days and patient days, CLABSI rates per 1000 line days and their 95% confidence intervals. We also performed a statistical analysis to determine if the rates are statistically higher, lower, or no different than California average rates. California average rates for 2013 can be found at https://archive.cdph.ca.gov/programs/hai/Documents/2013-CLABSI-T1.pdf. CLABSI rates are affected by clinical and infection control practices related to central line insertion and maintenance practices, patient-based risk factors, and surveillance methods. While stratifying CLABSI rates by patient care location makes rates more comparable, it cannot control for all individual patient factors that can affect CLABSI rates. A low CLABSI rate may reflect greater diligence with infection prevention or may reflect less effective surveillance methods that detect fewer infections, including failure to appropriately apply standardized surveillance definitions and protocols. Similarly, a high rate may reflect failure to consistently implement all recommended infection prevention practices or more aggressive infection surveillance including more consistent application of standardized surveillance definitions and protocols. Finally, readers should consider comparisons between two time periods cautiously, as more time is needed to determine if changes will be sustained, and therefore, more meaningful. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code (HSC) Section 1288.55(a)(1) requires general acute care hospitals (GACH) to report to the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) all cases of CLABSI identified in their facilities. Also, HSC Section 1288.8(b) requires GACHs to report to CDPH in its implementation of infection surveillance and infection prevention process measures including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines for central line insertion practices. The data are submitted by California hospitals to the CDC National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the "CLABSI Technical Notes" of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report at: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx
* [Profile of Enrolled Medi-Cal Fee-for-Service (FFS) Providers as of June 1, 2017](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/nnz9-spdi) - The dataset provides basic information about Fee-for-Service (FFS) providers enrolled in the Medi-Cal program. The information is based on a point in time and is expected to be updated monthly. The data were retrieved from the Provider Master File (PMF), which has been used in the claims payment process and is maintained by the Provider Enrollment Division (PED). The variables in the dataset include provider number, name, type, specialty, geographic information, etc. DHCS does not collect information on whether or not fee-for-services providers accept new Medi-Cal patients, and this dataset does not include Managed Care providers. For information about provider enrollment, please see http://www.dhcs.ca.gov/provgovpart/Pages/PED.aspx.
* [Walkable Distance Public Transit, 2008-2012](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/9a5p-mdsd) - This table contains data on the percent of population residing within ½ mile of a major transit stop for four California regions and the counties, cities/towns, and census tracts within the regions. The percent was calculated using data from four metropolitan planning organizations (San Diego Association of Governments, Southern California Association of Governments, Metropolitan Transportation Commission, and Sacramento Council of Governments) and the U.S. Census Bureau. The table is part of a series of indicators in the Healthy Communities Data and Indicators Project of the Office of Health Equity. A strong and sustainable transportation system supports safe, reliable, and affordable transportation opportunities for walking, bicycling, and public transit, and helps reduce health inequities by providing more opportunities for access to healthy food, jobs, health care, education, and other essential services. Active and public transportation promote health by enabling individuals to increase their level of physical activity, potentially reducing the risk of heart disease and obesity, improving mental health, and lowering blood pressure. More information about the data table and a data dictionary can be found in the About/Attachments section.
* [Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) Bloodstream Infections in Rehab Facilities, 2013](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/5qa4-kxuu) - Rehabilitation acute care hospitals (REHABs) are defined by the Social Security Administration as providing care to evaluate and restore function. This table shows the incidence rates of hospital onset (HO) methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (MRSA BSI) reported by California REHABs to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN), during the time period January through December 2013. MRSA BSI cases are classified as HO when a positive blood sample is obtained on day four or later during a hospital stay, from a patient with no prior positive blood culture within the preceding two weeks. The HO MRSA BSI rate is calculated by dividing the number of cases by the total number of patient days; the rate is then reported per 10,000 patient days. The MRSA BSI rates in this data release are not risk adjusted because there are no such methods available at this time for REHABs. In addition to patient-based risk factors, the unadjusted REHAB MRSA BSI rates herein are also affected by facility bed size, community prevalence rate, clinical and infection control practices, and/or surveillance methods. While stratifying MRSA BSI rates by hospital type may make rates more comparable, it cannot control for all factors that can affect MRSA BSI rates. Therefore, comparisons between hospitals within REHABs should still be made with caution. That is, differences in rates within this hospital type can represent other factors besides differences in infection and transmission prevention practices. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code section 1288.55(a)(1) requires general acute care hospitals to report to the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) all cases of MRSA BSI identified in their facilities. The data are submitted by California hospitals to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the "MRSA and VRE BSI Technical Notes" of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report on: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx.
* [Surgical Site Infections (SSIs) for 24 Operative Procedures, 2013](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/2yna-bjca) - This table shows the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) risk adjusted standardized infection ratios (SIR) for surgical site infections (SSIs) reported by hospitals for 24 operative procedures that are listed in the Data Dictionary. The SIR is calculated by dividing the number of observed infections by the number of predicted infections. The number of predicted infections is calculated using SSI probabilities estimated from multivariate logistic regression models constructed from NHSN data during a baseline time period 2006 through 2008, which represents a reference population’s SSI experience. To enforce a minimum precision criterion, an SIR is calculated only if the number of observed infections is at least one. SIRs are based on the date of procedure, not the date of the SSI event. All procedure and infection data entered before May 1, 2014 for surgical procedures performed between January 1 and December 31, 2013 were downloaded from NHSN for this data release. The SIR used for this table is a risk adjusted SIR that considers only complex SSI identified during hospital admission or readmission to the same hospital following inpatient surgeries. The procedure counts and infection counts submitted by each hospital are displayed along with an SIR, the 95 percent confidence interval for the SIR, and the statistical comparison as follows: * No difference - no difference in number of observed and predicted infections • High - more infections than predicted, or • Low - fewer infections than predicted To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code (HSC) Section 1288.55 requires California hospitals to report hospital-associated infection (HAI) data to NHSN, and requires CDPH to follow the NHSN risk adjustment process for the interpretation and publication of HAI data. This report for 2013 is based on the 29 mandated NHSN-defined SP categories submitted via NHSN and CDPH accepted only hospital SSI 2013 data for SP categories that are in the hospital’s NHSN monthly plan. For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the "Data and Methods" section of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report on: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx
* [Patient Discharge Data by Type of Care](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/5kma-jmme) - This chart displays the statewide distribution of inpatient discharges by licensed bed type of care for California hospitals, 2009 - 2015.
* [California Hospital Buildings Granted Seismic Extensions under Senate Bill 90 (Steinberg, 2011)](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/55pa-jxjn) - This map contains the location of general acute care hospital buildings that have been granted extensions of up to 7 years, beyond January 1, 2013, based on criteria provided by Senate Bill 90 (Steinberg, 2011). Facilities that currently have extension requests under review are not included in this map.
* [Proportion of Adults Who Are Current Smokers (LGHC Indicator 19)](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/d4gz-r6qv) - This is a source dataset for a Let's Get Healthy California indicator at https://letsgethealthy.ca.gov/. Adult smoking prevalence in California, males and females aged 18+, starting in 2012. Caution must be used when comparing the percentages of smokers over time as the definition of ‘current smoker’ was broadened in 1996, and the survey methods were changed in 2012. Current cigarette smoking is defined as having smoked at least 100 cigarettes in lifetime and now smoking every day or some days. Due to the methodology change in 2012, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommend not conducting analyses where estimates from 1984 – 2011 are compared with analyses using the new methodology, beginning in 2012. This includes analyses examining trends and changes over time. (For more information, please see the narrative description.) The California Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) is an on-going telephone survey of randomly selected adults, which collects information on a wide variety of health-related behaviors and preventive health practices related to the leading causes of death and disability such as cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes and injuries. Data are collected monthly from a random sample of the California population aged 18 years and older. The survey has been conducted since 1984 by the California Department of Public Health in collaboration with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In 2012, the survey methodology of the California BRFSS changed significantly so that the survey would be more representative of the general population. Several changes were implemented: 1) the survey became dual-frame, with both cell and landline random-digit dial components, 2) residents of college housing were eligible to complete the BRFSS, and 3) raking or iterative proportional fitting was used to calculate the survey weights. Due to these changes, estimates from 1984 – 2011 are not comparable to estimates from 2012 and beyond. Center for Disease Control and Policy (CDC) and recommend not conducting analyses where estimates from 1984 – 2011 are compared with analyses using the new methodology, beginning in 2012. This includes analyses examining trends and changes over time.Current cigarette smoking was defined as having smoked at least 100 cigarettes in lifetime and now smoking every day or some days. Prior to 1996, the definition of current cigarettes smoking was having smoked at least 100 cigarettes in lifetime and smoking now.
* [Community Care Licensing - Child Care Center Locations](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/c2p3-ahn4) - This dataset contains a partial list of Child Care facility locations (830 Infant Center. 840 School Age Day Care Center/School Age CC Center, 845 Day Care Center - Ill Center/ CC Center -Ill, 850 Day Care Center/ Child Care Center).
* [Patient Discharge Data by Gender](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/4bwp-95q8) - This dataset contains the distribution of inpatient discharges by gender for each California hospital, 2009 -2015.
* [Trend in Rate of Preventable Hospitalizations in California (Overall Composite), 2005-2015Q3](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/q29j-3mbw) - (See Note below regarding 2015 data). This chart displays the Statewide trend in the overall rate of Preventable Hospitalizations for Selected Medical Conditions. It is based upon Prevention Quality Indicator #90 (PQI 90) - Prevention Quality Overall Composite. PQI 90 is the composite indicator for 12 ambulatory care sensitive conditions. Hospitalizations due to these conditions are potentially preventable through access to high-quality outpatient care. The conditions include: diabetes short-term complications; diabetes long-term complications; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or asthma in older adults (age 40 and over); hypertension; heart failure; dehydration; bacterial pneumonia; urinary tract infection; angina without procedure; uncontrolled diabetes; asthma in younger adults (age 18-39); and lower-extremity amputation among patients with diabetes. Note: OSHPD is only releasing the first 3 quarters of 2015 data due to a change in the reporting of diagnoses/procedures from ICD-9-CM to ICD-10-CM/PCS effective October 1, 2015, and the inability of the AHRQ software to handle both code sets concurrently.
* [Asthma Prevalence (Lifetime),  Adults (18 and older) by Year, 2012 to 2015](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/hzkm-8ita) - This dataset contains the estimated percent of California adults (18 and older) with lifetime and current asthma (asthma prevalence), by year. The data are derived from the California Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). These data are based on self-report from telephone surveys and are subject to bias and low response rates. In 2012, the survey methodology of the BRFS changed significantly so that the survey would be more representative of the general population. Several changes were implemented: 1) the survey included both cell and landline random-digit dial components, 2) residents of college housing were eligible to complete the survey, and 3) new methods were used to calculate the survey weights. Due to these changes, estimates from 1984 – 2011 are not comparable to estimates from 2012 and beyond. CDPH and CDC recommend not conducting analyses where estimates from 1984 – 2011 are compared with analyses using the new methodology, beginning in 2012. This includes analyses examining trends and changes over time. Please refer to the attachment for AsthmaPrevalence-Adults-by-Year-CA-Description.pdf.
* [Insurance Affordability Programs Eligibility Appeals Hearing Results](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/rq2h-tiw2) - This dataset includes the hearing results for eligibility appeals filed for subsidized Covered California coverage, Medi-Cal, or a combination of both eligibility determinations by year and quarter. The Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) assigns responsibility for conducting fair hearing requests (appeals) to the California Department of Social Services (CDSS). CDSS receives appeal requests, conducts hearings through their statewide network of administrative law judges, and renders decisions. CDSS provides these services to DHCS through a contract called an interagency agreement. In addition to the interagency agreement, the Delegation Order gives an Administrative Law Judge the authority to review and adopt decisions for hearings. Hearing requests (appeals) may be filed for cases involving mixed determinations, such as when household members applied for and/or had eligibility determinations made for the two programs (i.e., parents were eligible for Covered California and the child(ren) were eligible for Medi-Cal). Hearings are held when an appeal filed by an appellant for determinations that resulted in a denial, eligibility, or discontinuance of coverage. This dataset provides categories of hearing results and includes granted, granted in part, denied, or withdrawn/dismissed. This dataset is part of the public reporting requirements set forth in the California Welfare and Institutions Code 14102.5(6).
* [Older Americans Act Title IIIC-2 Nutrition Services – Home Delivered Meals Program and Participants](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/wfi4-6pki) - This chart reflects the total number of Californians age 60 and over who were provided a meal from the Older Americans Act Title IIIC-2 Nutrition Services Program – Home Delivered Meals. Key socio-demographic variables include: age, high risk nutrition status, low income, lives alone and minority/non-minority.
* [Long-Term Care Ombudsman Program: Complaints Received in Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) and Intermediate Care Facility (ICF) Settings in Federal Fiscal Year (FFY) 2012/13](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/gm8m-6k36) - This chart reflects the number of complaints the Long-Term Care (LTC) Ombudsman Program received during Federal Fiscal Year (FFY) 2012/13 on behalf of residents in Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) and Intermediate Care Facility (ICF) settings. The LTC Ombudsman Program identifies, investigates and resolves complaints made by or on behalf of residents in LTC facilities and receives and investigates reports of suspected abuse of elder and dependent adults occurring in LTC and some community care facilities. SNFs and ICFs are Nursing Facility (NF) settings licensed by the California Department of Public Health. This data corresponds to federally required complaint categories. Complaints that are still open at the end of the FFY would be included in the following FFY data report.
* [Community Care Licensing - 24 Hour Residential Care for Children Facility Locations](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/2j3b-5s9x) - This map displays a partial list of Children's Residential facility locations (710 Small Family Home, 720 Crisis Nursery, 722 Temporary Shelter Care Facility, 724 Transitional Care Facility for Children, 726 Transitional Housing Placement Program).
* [California Hospital Buildings with Lowest Structural Performance Ratings](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/xp2z-s9m4) - This map contains the location of all general acute care hospital buildings in California that have a Structural Performance Category or “SPC” rating of 1. These buildings may be at risk of collapse following a strong earthquake. A building’s probability of collapse in a strong earthquake is assessed using Multi-Hazard Loss Estimation Technology (HAZUS).
* [Subarachnoid Stroke Mortality Rates and Quality Ratings for California Hospitals, Map](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/psvu-jpw6) - This map contains the location of hospitals that treated patients with subarachnoid stroke. The 2014 IMIs were generated using AHRQ Version 5.0, while the 2013 and 2014 IMIs were generated using AHRQ Version 4.5. The differences in the statistical method employed and inclusion and exclusion criteria using different versions can lead to different results. Users should not compare trends of mortality rates over time. However, many hospitals showed consistent performance over years; “better” performing hospitals may perform better and “worse” performing hospitals may perform worse consistently across years. It also provides inpatient risk-adjusted mortality rates, quality ratings, and number of deaths and cases. This data does not include conditions treated or procedures performed in outpatient settings. Please refer to statewide table for California overall rates.
* [Alameda County Hospitals' Preferred Language Spoken for Emergency Department Visits 2010-2014](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/jwgh-k8eu) - Chart displays preferred language spoken for emergency department visits for Alameda County hospitals 2010-2014.
* [Preterm and Very Preterm Births by County 2010-2013](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/gnv5-2vzx) - This dataset contains percent preterm and very preterm live births by maternal county of residence. Preterm births are all live births less than 37 weeks of gestation. Very preterm births are all live births less than 32 weeks of gestation. Important growth and development occur throughout pregnancy, especially in the final months and weeks. There is a higher risk of serious disability or death the earlier a baby is born. Gestational age is based on obstetric estimate at delivery (OE). Data includes births with gestational age of 17-47 weeks. Data should not be compared to other data where gestational age is based on the date of last menstrual period (LMP) and not OE. The National Center for Health Statistics recently transitioned to using an OE-based gestational age measure due to increasing evidence of its greater validity compared with the LMP-based measure. (http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr64/nvsr64_05.pdf)
* [Clostridium Difficile Infections (CDI) in Long-Term Acute Care, 2015](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/g6tw-tvck) - Long-term acute care is a hospital defined by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) as a licensed general acute care hospital providing care for patients with medically complex conditions requiring an average length of stay for all patients of greater than 25 days. This table shows the incidence rates of hospital onset Clostridium difficile infections (CDI) and use of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) reported by California long-term acute care (LTAC) hospitals. The hospital onset (HO) CDI rate is calculated by dividing the number of HO CDI cases by the total inpatient days; the rate is then reported per 10,000 patient days. The rates are not risk adjusted and may reflect factors in the hospital that can affect the occurrence of CDI, such as transmission of the C. difficile bacteria and use of antimicrobials. CDI cases are classified as HO when the positive stool sample is obtained on day four or later during the hospital stay. Differences in rates for LTAC hospitals can result from differences in laboratory testing methodology, patient populations, infection and transmission prevention practices, antibiotic utilization, and/or community onset rates of CDI. HO CDI rate in LTAC hospitals is provided separately from the rates in rehabilitation acute care hospitals. Patients in LTAC hospitals have longer lengths of stay, an established risk factor for CDI. Also, specifically for LTAC and rehabilitation acute care hospitals, we include whether a hospital uses the polymerase chain reaction test (PCR) to detect CDI. In this table, hospital rates of CDI for LTAC hospitals have not been adjusted to account for the differences in sensitivity between PCR and other laboratory testing methods; therefore, rates from hospitals using different types of laboratory tests are not comparable. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code section 1288.55(a)(1) requires general acute care hospitals to report to the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) all cases of CDI identified in their facilities. The data are submitted by California hospitals to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the "CDI Technical Notes" of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report at: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx. Differences in rates for LTAC and rehabilitation hospitals can result from differences in laboratory testing methodology, patient populations, infection and transmission prevention practices, antibiotic utilization, and/or community onset rates of CDI. Rates from rehabilitation hospitals using different types of laboratory tests are not comparable, as there can be as much as a two-fold difference in test sensitivity. Therefore, the rehabilitation hospital-specific rates presented here have not been risk adjusted and are not comparable.
* [Clostridium Difficile Infections (CDI) in Hospitals, 2015](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/mrcy-r46b) - This table shows the Center for Disease Control and Prevention National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) standardized infection ratios (SIR) of hospital onset (HO) Clostridium difficile infections (CDI) reported by California general acute care hospitals other than long-term and rehabilitation acute care hospitals. The HO CDI SIR, which adjusts for significant risk factors, is calculated by comparing the number of CDI that occurred (or were observed) in the hospital in 2015 to the number that would be predicted based on the national referent CDI rate data. CDI cases are classified as HO when the positive stool sample is obtained on day four or later during the hospital stay. Risk factors found to be significant in predicting HO CDI incidence include the type of CDI test used by the hospital, if the hospital is affiliated with a medical school, hospital bed size, and the burden of community-onset CDI in patients admitted to the hospital. Adjusting for these factors provides for a more accurate comparison of hospitals’ infections. Hospitals with NHSN-predicted number of HO CDI cases <1 had no SIRs calculated by NHSN. A SIR was calculated by CDPH if the predicted number of infections was <1 and >=0.2. The SIR and its comparison are not as accurate as SIRs based on a larger number of predicted infections. For a detailed explanation, please see the Technical Notes. For each hospital with a CDI SIR, we performed a statistical analysis to determine if the observed number of infections was significantly different than the predicted number. Based on our statistical analysis we labeled each hospital’s CDI SIR as indicating: • No Difference - no difference in number of observed and predicted infections, • Higher - higher or more infections than predicted, or • Lower - lower or fewer infections than predicted. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code section 1288.55(a)(1) requires general acute care hospitals to report to the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) all cases of CDI identified in their facilities. The data are submitted by California hospitals to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the "CDI Technical Notes" of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report at: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx The SIRs cannot be compared across hospitals because of "indirect" standardization methodology used in calculating the SIRs.
* [Poverty Rate (defined by U.S. Census) by California Regions, 2000-2010, Merced County Cities and Towns](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/j2ma-xt83) - The poverty rate (US Census-defined) table contains data on the percentage of the total population living below the poverty level, percentage of children living below the poverty level, and concentrated poverty data for California, its regions, counties, cities, towns, and Census tracts. Data for multiple time periods (2000, 2005-2007, 2008-2010, and 2006-2010) and with race/ethnicity stratification is included in the table. Concentrated poverty is the percentage of the poor living in Census tracts where 40% of the population or higher, are poor. The poverty rate table is part of a series of indicators in the Healthy Communities Data and Indicators Project of the Office of Health Equity (http://www.cdph.ca.gov/programs/Pages/HealthyCommunityIndicators.aspx). Poverty is an important social determinant of health (see http://www.healthypeople.gov/2020/topicsobjectives2020/overview.aspx?topicid=39) that can impact people’s access to basic necessities (housing, food, education, jobs, and transportation), and is associated with higher incidence and prevalence of illness, and with reduced access to quality health care. More information on the data table and a data dictionary can be found in the About/Attachments section.
* [Community Care Licensing - Child Care Home (More Than 8 Children) Locations](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/kfhn-bmpi) - This dataset contains a partial list of Child Care Facility locations (810 Family Day Care Home). This data only includes information on Family Day Care Homes with a capacity of more than 8.
* [Vancomycin-Resistant Enterococci (VRE) Bloodstream Infections in Hospitals, 2015](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/ny8b-7bbw) - This table shows the incidence rates of hospital onset (HO) vancomycin-resistant Enterococci bloodstream infections (VRE BSI) reported by California general acute care hospitals to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN), during the time period January through December 2015, grouped by hospital type: Critical access acute care hospital (CAH; defined as certain facilities that participate in Medicare and that are designated by states through a protocol); long-term acute care hospital (LTAC; defined by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services as providing care to patients with medically complex conditions requiring an average length of stay greater than 25 days); major teaching acute care hospital (MTAC; a hospital that self-identifies and is confirmed by California Department of Public Health (CDPH) as providing an important part of the teaching program of a medical school); pediatric acute care hospital (PED; a hospital defined by CDPH as a stand-alone children's hospital); free-standing rehabilitation acute care hospital and rehabilitation unit with its own Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services certification number (REHAB; defined by the Social Security Administration as providing care to evaluate and restore function); or community hospital (COM; a hospital not classified as one of the above other types). VRE BSI cases are classified as HO when a positive blood sample is obtained on day four or later during a hospital stay, from a patient with no prior positive blood culture within the preceding two weeks. The HO VRE BSI rate is calculated by dividing the number of cases by the total number of patient days; the rate is then reported per 10,000 patient days. The VRE BSI rates in this data release are not risk adjusted because there are no such methods available at this time. The unadjusted VRE BSI rates herein are also affected by clinical and infection control practices and/or surveillance methods. While stratifying VRE BSI rates by hospital type may make rates more comparable, it cannot control for all factors that can affect VRE BSI rates. Therefore, comparisons between hospitals within type groups (strata) should still be made with caution. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code section 1288.55(a)(1) requires general acute care hospitals to report to the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) all cases of VRE BSI identified in their facilities. The data are submitted by California hospitals to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the "MRSA and VRE BSI Technical Notes" of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report on: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx
* [Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) Bloodstream Infections in Rehab Facilities, 2014](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/n57d-fe5t) - Rehabilitation acute care hospitals (REHABs) are defined by the Social Security Administration as providing care to evaluate and restore function. This table shows the incidence rates of hospital onset (HO) methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (MRSA BSI) reported by California REHABs to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN), during the time period January through December 2014. MRSA BSI cases are classified as HO when a positive blood sample is obtained on day four or later during a hospital stay, from a patient with no prior positive blood culture within the preceding two weeks. The HO MRSA BSI rate is calculated by dividing the number of cases by the total number of patient days; the rate is then reported per 10,000 patient days. The MRSA BSI rates in this data release are not risk adjusted because there are no such methods available at this time for REHABs. In addition to patient-based risk factors, the unadjusted REHAB MRSA BSI rates herein are also affected by facility bed size, community prevalence rate, clinical and infection control practices, and/or surveillance methods. While stratifying MRSA BSI rates by hospital type may make rates more comparable, it cannot control for all factors that can affect MRSA BSI rates. Therefore, comparisons between hospitals within REHABs should still be made with caution. That is, differences in rates within this hospital type can represent other factors besides differences in infection and transmission prevention practices. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code section 1288.55(a)(1) requires general acute care hospitals to report to the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) all cases of MRSA BSI identified in their facilities. The data are submitted by California hospitals to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the "MRSA and VRE BSI Technical Notes" of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report on: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx.
* [Preterm Birth Trend by Race/Ethnicity 2010-2013](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/p8tm-74py) - This dataset contains percent preterm and very preterm live births by race/ethnic group of mother. Preterm births are all live births less than 37 weeks of gestation. Very preterm births are all live births less than 32 weeks of gestation. Important growth and development occur throughout pregnancy, especially in the final months and weeks. There is a higher risk of serious disability or death the earlier a baby is born. Gestational age is based on obstetric estimate at delivery (OE). Data includes births with gestational age of 17-47 weeks. Data should not be compared to other data where gestational age is based on the date of last normal menses (LMP) and not OE. The National Center for Health Statistics recently transitioned to using an OE-based gestational age measure due to increasing evidence of its greater validity compared with the LMP-based measure. (http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr64/nvsr64_05.pdf) Note: The race and ethnic groups in this table utilize eight mutually exclusive race and ethnicity categories. These categories are Hispanic and the following Non-Hispanic categories of Multi-Race, African-American, American Indian (includes Eskimo and Aleut), Asian, Pacific Islander (includes Hawaiian), White (includes Other race) and Unknown (includes refused to state and missing).
* [Hospital Profitability, 2009-2013](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/chmy-sb7k) - The dataset contains income statement information for all licensed, comparable hospitals in the state of California. Kaiser hospitals, state mental hospitals, psychiatric health facilities, and hospitals with mainly long-term care patients are excluded. Deductions from Revenue, Net Patient Revenue, Net from Operations (Operating Revenue less Operating Expense), and Net Income for public hospitals has been adjusted for Disproportionate Share intergovernmental transfers for funding the Disproportionate Share Hospital Program. The program gets federal matching funds to pay supplemental payments to hospitals with a disproportionate share of uninsured, underinsured, and Medi-Cal patients.
* [Clostridium Difficile Infections (CDI) in Hospitals, 2013](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/rpn8-p5hw) - This table shows the Center for Disease Control and Prevention National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) standardized infection ratios (SIR) of hospital onset (HO) Clostridium difficile infections (CDI) reported by California general acute care hospitals other than long-term and rehabilitation acute care hospitals. The HO CDI SIR, which adjusts for significant risk factors, is calculated by comparing the number of CDI that occurred (or were observed) in the hospital in 2013 to the number that would be predicted based on the national referent CDI rate data. CDI cases are classified as HO when the positive stool sample is obtained on day four or later during the hospital stay. Risk factors found to be significant in predicting HO CDI incidence include the type of CDI test used by the hospital, if the hospital is affiliated with a medical school, hospital bed size, and the burden of community-onset CDI in patients admitted to the hospital. Adjusting for these factors provides for a more accurate comparison of hospitals’ infections. For more precise comparisons, NHSN only calculates a SIR when at least one HO CDI is predicted, which is determined by patient volume and other factors predictive of acquiring CDI. However, we calculated the SIR for such hospitals with HO CDI predicted less than one if the number of HO CDI observed was greater than zero. For each hospital with a CDI SIR, we performed a statistical analysis to determine if the observed number of infections was significantly different than the predicted number. Based on our statistical analysis we labeled each hospital’s CDI SIR as: • No difference - no difference in number of observed and predicted infections, • Higher - high or more infections than predicted, or • Lower - low or fewer infections than predicted. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code section 1288.55(a)(1) requires general acute care hospitals to report to the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) all cases of CDI identified in their facilities. The data are submitted by California hospitals to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the "CDI Technical Notes" of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report at: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx The SIRs cannot be compared across hospitals because of "indirect" standardization methodology used in calculating the SIRs.
* [Hospital Building Data](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/x4kp-ag8p) - Provides the basic information for general acute care hospital buildings such as height, number of stories, the building code used to design the building and year it was completed. The data is sorted by counties and cities. Structural Performance Categories (SPC ratings) are also provided. SPC ratings range from 1 to 5 with SPC 1 assigned to buildings that may be at risk of collapse during a strong earthquake and SPC 5 assigned to buildings reasonably capable of providing services to the public following a strong earthquake. Where SPC ratings have not been confirmed by the Office of Statewide Health, Planning and Development (OSHPD) yet, the rating index is followed by 's'. A URL for the building webpage in OSHPD/FDD eServices Portal is also provided to view projects related to any building.
* [Surgical Site Infections (SSIs) for 5 Operative Procedures, 2014](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/v4d9-x5c5) - This table shows the surgical site infections (SSIs) reported by a hospital for the 5 Operative procedures without risk adjusted comparisons (Heart transplant, Kidney surgery, Pacemaker Surgery, Spleen surgery, Ovarian surgery), to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). All procedure and infection data entered before May 4, 2015 for surgical procedures performed between January 1 and December 31, 2014 were downloaded from NHSN for this data release. The hospital submitted procedure counts and infection counts are displayed. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code (HSC) Section 1288.55 requires California hospitals to report hospital-associated infection (HAI) data to NHSN, and requires CDPH to follow the NHSN risk adjustment process for the interpretation and publication of HAI data. This report for 2014 is based on the 29 mandated NHSN-defined SP categories submitted via NHSN and CDPH accepted only hospital SSI 2014 data for SP categories that are in the hospital’s NHSN monthly plan. For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the ""Data and Methods"" section of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report on: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx
* [Statewide Trend in Rate of Central Venous Catheter-Related Blood Stream Infections (Age 18+), 2005-2014](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/ct3h-zceu) - This chart displays the Statewide trend in the overall observed rate of Central Venous Catheter-Related Blood Stream Infections (Age 18+). It is based upon the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality’s (AHRQ’s) Patient Safety Indicator #23.
* [Location of California Licensed Paramedics, Certified EMTs and Certified Advanced EMTs](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/i5vy-iuuh) - Map reflecting the distribution of Paramedics, EMTs and / or Advanced EMTs licensed or certified to work in California based upon the location given for mailing the license or certification. Applicants may supply their work, residential or other location.
* [Pancreatic Cancer Mortality Rates and Quality Ratings for California Hospitals, Map](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/bxiz-2xrt) - This map contains the location of hospitals that treated patients with pancreatic cancer. The 2014 IMIs were generated using AHRQ Version 5.0, while the 2013 and 2014 IMIs were generated using AHRQ Version 4.5. The differences in the statistical method employed and inclusion and exclusion criteria using different versions can lead to different results. Users should not compare trends of mortality rates over time. However, many hospitals showed consistent performance over years; “better” performing hospitals may perform better and “worse” performing hospitals may perform worse consistently across years. It also provides inpatient risk-adjusted mortality rates, quality ratings, and number of deaths and cases. This data does not include conditions treated or procedures performed in outpatient settings. Please refer to statewide table for California overall rates.
* [Patient Discharge Data by Age Group](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/a5i8-78pu) - This chart displays the statewide distribution of inpatient discharges by age group for California hospital for years 2009 - 2015.
* [Long-Term Care Ombudsman: Complaints in Skilled Nursing & Intermediate Care Facility Settings](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/j5fi-fu4y) - This data set reflects the number of complaints the Long-Term Care (LTC) Ombudsman Program received during Federal Fiscal Year (FFY) 2012/13 on behalf of residents in Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) and Intermediate Care Facility (ICF) settings. The LTC Ombudsman Program identifies, investigates and resolves complaints made by or on behalf of residents in LTC facilities and receives and investigates reports of suspected abuse of elder and dependent adults occurring in LTC and some community care facilities. SNFs and ICFs are Nursing Facility (NF) settings licensed by the California Department of Public Health. This data corresponds to federally required complaint categories. Complaints that are still open at the end of the FFY would be included in the following FFY data report.
* [Vocational Rehabilitation Successful Closures by Occupation and County, SFY 2014](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/sefc-q2k4) - This dataset represents the statewide count of Department of Rehabilitation’s total successful closures by occupation by county.
* [Older Americans Act Title IIIC-2 Nutrition Services – Home Delivered Meals Program and Participants.](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/jgui-tnwi) - This data set represents the total number of Californians age 60 and over who were provided a home delivered meal from the Older Americans Act Title IIIC-2 Nutrition Services Program. Key sociodemographic variables include: age, high risk nutrition status, low income, lives alone and minority/non-minority.
* [CA Surgeon Risk-Adjusted Operative Mortality Rates for Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/f8h2-2qwm) - This dataset provides performance ratings for California Surgeons for Risk-Adjusted Operative Mortality Rates for Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery during 2011 and 2012. It also includes the number of isolated CABG surgery cases and deaths that each surgeon performed as well as the location of hospitals where the surgeon performed CABG surgery.
* [Licensed Facility Crosswalk](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/tthg-z4mf) - This dataset provides a simple crosswalk using Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development (OSHPD) assigned licensed facility identification numbers linked with matched California Department of Public Health (CDPH), Licensing and Certification facility lists based on license number. This is not a comprehensive matched list, facility identification numbers that did not match are also included from both the OSHPD and CDPH lists. Facility Status or Facility Level designations may explain some OSHPD non-matches, for additional information contact OSHPD directly. Please contact CDPH directly for more information regarding un-matched facility identifiers that do not have corresponding OSHPD identifiers.
* [Patient Discharge Data by Type Of Care](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/y9ap-s7ru) - This dataset contains the distribution of inpatient discharges by licensed bed type of care for each California hospital, 2009 - 2015.
* [Insurance Affordability Programs Eligibility Appeals](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/icie-t72e) - This dataset includes the number of individuals who have filed an appeal for a subsidized Covered California Qualified Health Plan (QHP), Medi-Cal, or a combination of both eligibility determinations by year and quarter. Appeals may be filed by an appellant for determinations that resulted in a denial, eligibility, or discontinuance of coverage. A denial is defined as an eligibility determination at application that resulted in a denial of coverage. An appeal regarding an eligibility determination may be filed when the appellant disputes the type of program eligibility. A discontinuance is when an individual is no longer eligible for Medi-Cal or Covered California QHP. Appeals may be filed for cases involving mixed determinations, such as when household members applied for and/or had eligibility determinations made for the two programs (i.e., parents were eligible for Covered California and the child(ren) were eligible for Medi-Cal). Covered California and Medi-Cal eligibility appeals are processed and adjudicated by Administrative Law Judges and the California Department of Social Services (CDSS) staff who track appeals and hearing results. This dataset is part of the public reporting requirements set forth in California Welfare and Institutions Code 14102.5(6).
* [Patient Discharge Data By Principal Procedure](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/g7gr-st2e) - This dataset contains the distribution of inpatient discharges by principal procedure group for each California hospital for years 2009 to most current available year.
* [Central Line-Associated Bloodstream Infections (CLABSI) in Patient Care Areas, 2015](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/6thh-8aa8) - This 2015 central line-associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI) rates file includes four patient care areas: 1) Critical Care Areas (CCAs) are nursing care areas that provide intensive observation, diagnosis, and therapeutic procedures for patients who are critically ill. These areas exclude step-down, intermediate, or telemetry care areas. 2) Neonatal Critical Care (NCC) Areas specialize in Level II/III and/or Level III critical care provided to newborns and infants. 3) General Care Areas (WARDS) include the following types of locations: stepdown general care locations specializing in patients that are hemodynamically stable; medical general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of nonsurgical conditions; medical/surgical general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of medical and/or surgical conditions; surgical general care locations providing evaluation and treatment for pre- or post-surgical conditions; long-term acute care locations specializing in patients requiring an extended stay in an acute care environment; adult rehabilitation general care locations providing care to patients who have lost function; labor, delivery, recovery, postpartum general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of normal and high risk pregnancy patients; behavioral general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of patients with acute psychiatric or behavioral disorders; jail general care locations providing evaluation and treatment of patients who are in custody of law enforcement during their treatment; pediatric general care locations providing evaluation or treatment to any patient less than or equal to 18 years of age for any medical or surgical condition; and pediatric rehabilitation locations providing care to patients less than or equal to 18 years of age who have lost function. 4) Special Care Areas (SCA) are nursing care areas which specialize in patients who undergo bone marrow (stem cell) transplant for the treatment of various disorders; or require management and treatment for cancer and/or blood disorders; or require postoperative care after solid organ transplant. This combined CLABSI rates table shows the hospital-specific CLABSI data and central line insertion practices (CLIP) adherence percent by patient care locations in CCAs, NCCs and one treatment area within SCA, "Oncology - Medical/Surgical Critical Care", Permanent and Temporary Central Line Days. The CLABSI measures include the number of CLABSIs, central line-days, patient days, CLABSI rates and their 95% confidence intervals. We also performed statistical analyses to determine if the rates are statistically higher, lower, or no different than the California average rates by patient care locations. We know CLABSI rates are influenced by clinical and infection control practices related to central line insertion and maintenance procedures, patient-based risk factors, and surveillance methods. While stratifying CLABSI rates by patient care location makes rates more comparable, this data risk adjusted procedure cannot control for all individual patient factors that can affect CLABSI rates. A low CLABSI rate may reflect greater diligence with infection prevention or may result from less effective surveillance methods that detect fewer infections, including the failure to consistently apply all currently accepted standardized surveillance definitions and protocols. Similarly, a high rate may reflect the failure to consistently implement all recommended infection prevention practices or use more aggressive infection surveillance methods that can include the application of standardized surveillance definitions and protocols. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code (HSC) Section 1288.55(a)(1) requires gene
* [Central Line-Associated Bloodstream Infections (CLABSI) in Critical Care Areas, 2013](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/rcyj-2xxc) - Critical Care Areas (CCAs) are nursing care areas that provide intensive observation, diagnosis, and therapeutic procedures for patients who are critically ill. These areas exclude step-down, intermediate, or telemetry care areas. This table shows the hospital-specific central line-associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI) data and central line insertion practices (CLIP) adherence percent by patient care locations in CCAs excluding neonatal critical care. The CLABSI data for each hospital include number of CLABSIs, central line-days and patient days, CLABSI rates and their 95% confidence intervals. We also performed statistical analysis to determine whether the rates are statistically higher, lower, or no different than California average rates by patient care locations. California average rates for 2013 can be found at https://archive.cdph.ca.gov/programs/hai/Documents/2013-CLABSI-T1.pdf. CLABSI rates are affected by clinical and infection control practices related to central line insertion and maintenance practices, patient-based risk factors, and surveillance methods. While stratifying CLABSI rates by patient care location makes rates more comparable, it cannot control for all individual patient factors that can affect CLABSI rates. A low CLABSI rate may reflect greater diligence with infection prevention or may reflect less effective surveillance methods that detect fewer infections, including failure to appropriately apply standardized surveillance definitions and protocols. Similarly, a high rate may reflect failure to consistently implement all recommended infection prevention practices or more aggressive infection surveillance including more consistent application of standardized surveillance definitions and protocols. Finally, readers should consider comparisons between two time periods cautiously, as more time is needed to determine if changes will be sustained, and therefore, more meaningful. To link the CDPH facility IDs with those from other Departments, like OSHPD, please reference the "Licensed Facility Cross-Walk" Open Data table at https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Licensed-Facility-Cross-Walk/tthg-z4mf. Health and Safety Code (HSC) Section 1288.55(a)(1) requires general acute care hospitals (GACH) to report to the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) all cases of CLABSI identified in their facilities. Also, HSC Section 1288.8(b) requires GACHs to report to CDPH in its implementation of infection surveillance and infection prevention process measures including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines for central line insertion practices. The data are submitted by California hospitals to the CDC National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). For more information on data collection processes and methods, please see the "CLABSI Technical Notes" of the healthcare-associated infections (HAI) report at: https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/HAI/Pages/HAIProgramHome.aspx
* [Educational Attainment, 2000-2010](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/kka6-zy7x) - This table contains data on the percent of residents aged 25 years and older educational attainment (percent completing high school, associates degree, college or more advanced degree) for California, its regions, counties, cities/towns, and census tracts. Data is from the U.S. Census Bureau, Decennial Census and American Community Survey. The table is part of a series of indicators in the Healthy Communities Data and Indicators Project of the Office of Health Equity (https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/OHE/Pages/Healthy-Communities-Data-and-Indicators-Project-(HCI).aspx). Greater educational attainment has been associated with health-promoting behaviors including consumption of fruits and vegetables and other aspects of healthy eating, engaging in regular physical activity, and refraining from excessive consumption of alcohol and from smoking. Completion of formal education (e.g., high school) is a key pathway to employment and access to healthier and higher paying jobs that can provide food, housing, transportation, health insurance, and other basic necessities for a healthy life. Education is linked with social and psychological factors, including sense of control, social standing and social support. These factors can improve health through reducing stress, influencing health-related behaviors and providing practical and emotional support. More information about the data table and a data dictionary can be found in the About/Attachments section.
* [Patient Discharge Data by Race Groups](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/q5ki-89hr) - This dataset contains the distribution of inpatient discharges by race group for each California hospital, 2009 - 2015.
* [Patient Discharge Data By Admission Type](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/dsqq-hf7j) - This dataset contains the distribution of inpatient discharges by type of admission for each California hospital for years 2009-2015.
* [Preterm and Very Preterm Births by Race/Ethnicity 2010-2013](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/fju5-uks4) - This dataset contains percent preterm and very preterm live births by race/ethnic group of mother. Preterm births are all live births less than 37 weeks of gestation. Very preterm births are all live births less than 32 weeks of gestation. Important growth and development occur throughout pregnancy, especially in the final months and weeks. There is a higher risk of serious disability or death the earlier a baby is born. Gestational age is based on obstetric estimate at delivery (OE). Data includes births with gestational age of 17-47 weeks. Data should not be compared to other data where gestational age is based on the date of last normal menses (LMP) and not OE. The National Center for Health Statistics recently transitioned to using an OE-based gestational age measure due to increasing evidence of its greater validity compared with the LMP-based measure. (http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr64/nvsr64_05.pdf) Note: The race and ethnic groups in this table utilize eight mutually exclusive race and ethnicity categories. These categories are Hispanic and the following Non-Hispanic categories of Multi-Race, African-American, American Indian (includes Eskimo and Aleut), Asian, Pacific Islander (includes Hawaiian), White (includes Other race) and Unknown (includes refused to state and missing).
* [Licensed Bed Classification and Designations Trends](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/rsr5-a4zw) - This dataset contains information by licensed facility including number of patient days, hospital discharges, licensed bed days, and intra-hospital transfer from critical care by the six licensed bed classifications, including General Acute Care, Chemical Dependency Recovery, Acute Psychiatric, Skilled Nursing, Intermediate Care, and Intermediate Care/Developmentally Disabled. The General Acute Care classification is further defined by bed designation categories that include Medical/Surgical (includes GYN/DOU), Perinatal (includes LDRP, excludes nursery), Pediatric Acute, Intensive Care, Coronary Care, Acute Respiratory Care, Burn Center, Intensive Care Newborn Nursery, and Rehabilitation Center bed designations. 2015 data are preliminary, are as reported and have not been audited. See the Healthcare Facility Bed Types and Counts dataset for complimentary information at: https://chhs.data.ca.gov/Facilities-and-Services/Healthcare-Facility-Bed-Types-And-Counts/f9pb-6m2b
* [Hip Fracture Mortality Rates and Quality Ratings, Map](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/y6sn-fbhb) - This map contains the location of hospitals that treated patients with hip fracture. The 2014 IMIs were generated using AHRQ Version 5.0, while the 2013 and 2014 IMIs were generated using AHRQ Version 4.5. The differences in the statistical method employed and inclusion and exclusion criteria using different versions can lead to different results. Users should not compare trends of mortality rates over time. However, many hospitals showed consistent performance over years; “better” performing hospitals may perform better and “worse” performing hospitals may perform worse consistently across years. It also provides inpatient risk-adjusted mortality rates, quality ratings, and number of deaths and cases. This data does not include conditions treated or procedures performed in outpatient settings. Please refer to statewide table for California overall rates.
* [Annual Vehicle Miles Traveled per Capita, by California Region, 2002-2010](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/je3q-h5t8) - This table contains data on the annual miles traveled by place of occurrence and by mode of transportation (vehicle, pedestrian, bicycle), for California, its regions, counties, and cities/towns. The ratio uses data from the California Department of Transportation, the U.S. Department of Transportation, and the U.S. Census Bureau. The table is part of a series of indicators in the Healthy Communities Data and Indicators Project of the Office of Health Equity. Miles traveled by individuals and their choice of mode – car, truck, public transit, walking or bicycling – have a major impact on mobility and population health. Miles traveled by automobile offers extraordinary personal mobility and independence, but it is also associated with air pollution, greenhouse gas emissions linked to global warming, road traffic injuries, and sedentary lifestyles. Active modes of transport – bicycling and walking alone and in combination with public transit – offer opportunities for physical activity, which has many documented health benefits. More information about the data table and a data dictionary can be found in the About/Attachments section.
* [Patient Discharge Data by Expected Payer](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/yb7u-9r9r) - This chart displays the statewide distribution of inpatient discharges by expected payer for California hospitals for 2009 - 2015.
* [Unemployment Rate by Race/Ethnicity, California, 2006-2010](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/vbe9-qkds) - This table contains data on the percent of the population in the labor force who are unemployed (unemployment rate), for California, its regions, counties, county divisions, cities/towns, and census tracts. Data is from the Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS), Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), and the U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS). The table is part of a series of indicators in the Healthy Communities Data and Indicators Project of the Office of Health Equity (http://www.cdph.ca.gov/programs/Pages/HealthyCommunityIndicators.aspx). Unemployment is associated with higher rates of self-reported poor health, long-term illnesses, higher incidence of risky health behaviors (alcoholism, smoking), and increased mortality. Various explanations have been proposed for the link between poor health and unemployment; for example, economic deprivation that results in reduced access to essential goods and services. Another explanation is that unemployment causes the loss of latent functions (social contact, social status, time structure and personal identity) which can result in stigma, isolation and loss of self-worth. More information about the data table and a data dictionary can be found in the About/Attachments section.
* [Emergency Department Data, Preferred Language Spoken](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/w4xy-f58p) - This dataset contains the distribution of emergency department encounters and admits by preferred language spoken for each California hospital for years 2010-2015.
* [Patient Discharge Data by Age Groups](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/2dtk-8j3b) - This dataset contains the distribution of inpatient discharges by age group for each California hospital, 2009 - 2015.
* [Community Care Licensing - Adult Residential Facility Locations](https://chhs.data.ca.gov/d/w6kr-3ktb) - This dataset contains the location of Adult Residential Facilities (734 Adult Residential Facility for Persons with Special Health Care Needs, 735 Adult Residential, 736 Residential Facility for the Chronically Ill, 772 Social Rehabilitation Facility, and 775 Adult Day Program).
