# chronicdata.cdc.gov health datasets
* [Graph of Recommended Per-Capita Funding Levels for State Programs (CDC Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs 2014)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ptqh-8pwj) - 2014. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs. Funding. CDC's Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs is an evidence-based guide to help states plan and establish effective tobacco control programs to prevent and reduce tobacco use.  These data update Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2007.  Data are reported at total and per capita funding levels. Data include recommended and minimum total funding levels for state programs, in addition to funding breakdowns by intervention areas such as: State and Community Interventions, Mass-Reach Health Communication Interventions, Cessation Interventions, Surveillance and Evaluation, and Infrastructure, Administration, and Management.* [Map of Appropriations by Per Capita (University of Illinois at Chicago Health Policy Center - Funding)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/n6pm-gr3q) - 1991-2016. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System. Funding Data, Appropriations (1991-2016) and Expenditures (2008-2016). Appropriations data show public funds allocated to/by a particular state for tobacco prevention and control. They are not necessarily expended. Appropriations are from four major funding sources, Federal, state, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF), and the American Legacy Foundation (Legacy). Expenditures are amounts spent by state tobacco control programs on tobacco prevention and control. Expenditure data are available by CDC Best Practices Program Components (State and Community Interventions, Health Communication Interventions, Cessation Interventions, Surveillance and Evaluation, and Administration and Management). Expenditures from 2008 to 2014 are compared against 2007 CDC Best Practices Recommendations; expenditures from 2015 and forward are compared against 2014 CDC Best Practices Recommendations.* [HRQOL: Chart of Mean days of activity limitation - Nationwide](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/hpsg-eyqc) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [Reasons for No Eye Care (Age-adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/t9kj-aema) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [Table of Recommended Per-Capita Funding Levels for State Programs (CDC Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs 2014)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/wpkd-y6hn) - 2014. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs. Funding. CDC's Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs is an evidence-based guide to help states plan and establish effective tobacco control programs to prevent and reduce tobacco use.  These data update Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2007.  Data are reported at total and per capita funding levels. Data include recommended and minimum total funding levels for state programs, in addition to funding breakdowns by intervention areas such as: State and Community Interventions, Mass-Reach Health Communication Interventions, Cessation Interventions, Surveillance and Evaluation, and Infrastructure, Administration, and Management.* [Table for STATE System Current Cigarette Use Among Adults Interactive Map](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xmxq-jxrr) - 2011-2016. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System.  BRFSS Survey Data.  The BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. The data for the STATE System were extracted from the annual BRFSS surveys from participating states.  Tobacco topics included are cigarette smoking status, cigarette smoking prevalence by demographics, cigarette smoking frequency, and quit attempts. NOTE: these data are not to be compared with BRFSS data collected 2010 and prior, as the methodologies were changed. Please refer to the FAQs / Methodology sections for more details.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Immunization](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/tvus-njbk) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [Graph of Recommended Funding Levels by Program Components Per Capita (CDC Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs 2014)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ejbi-gym3) - 2014. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs. Funding. CDC's Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs is an evidence-based guide to help states plan and establish effective tobacco control programs to prevent and reduce tobacco use.  These data update Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2007.  Data are reported at total and per capita funding levels. Data include recommended and minimum total funding levels for state programs, in addition to funding breakdowns by intervention areas such as: State and Community Interventions, Mass-Reach Health Communication Interventions, Cessation Interventions, Surveillance and Evaluation, and Infrastructure, Administration, and Management.* [Any Distance Visual Impairment (Age-Adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/yrup-t8tm) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [Graph of Recommended Per-Capita Funding Levels for State Programs (CDC Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs 2014)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ptqh-8pwj) - 2014. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs. Funding. CDC's Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs is an evidence-based guide to help states plan and establish effective tobacco control programs to prevent and reduce tobacco use.  These data update Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2007.  Data are reported at total and per capita funding levels. Data include recommended and minimum total funding levels for state programs, in addition to funding breakdowns by intervention areas such as: State and Community Interventions, Mass-Reach Health Communication Interventions, Cessation Interventions, Surveillance and Evaluation, and Infrastructure, Administration, and Management.* [States with a Dental Director](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/qek2-iyap) - 2018. The ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs contain information useful in tracking states’ efforts to improve oral health and contributions to progress toward the national targets for Healthy People objectives for oral health. A subset of the information collected from the most recent five years is provided on the Oral Health Data website. For more information, see http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/synopses/index.html* [HRQOL: JB Chart of Mean Physically or Mentally unhealthy Days](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/76jj-qcyi) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Disability](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/72v6-pkw3) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [Graph of Rates of Teeth Cleaning During Pregnancy](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/pmxu-gsdm) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Diabetic Retinopathy (Age-adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ht3t-s94t) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [Ami Test Chart 2](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/866z-nqgu) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [Age-related Macular Degeneration (Age-Adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/nusu-icam) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [Eye-Care Visit in the Past Year (Age-adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/36rv-5pwa) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [HRQOL: Chart of Mean days of activity limitation - Nationwide](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/hpsg-eyqc) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [Reasons for No Eye Care (Age-adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/t9kj-aema) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [Table of Recommended Per-Capita Funding Levels for State Programs (CDC Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs 2014)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/wpkd-y6hn) - 2014. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs. Funding. CDC's Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs is an evidence-based guide to help states plan and establish effective tobacco control programs to prevent and reduce tobacco use.  These data update Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2007.  Data are reported at total and per capita funding levels. Data include recommended and minimum total funding levels for state programs, in addition to funding breakdowns by intervention areas such as: State and Community Interventions, Mass-Reach Health Communication Interventions, Cessation Interventions, Surveillance and Evaluation, and Infrastructure, Administration, and Management.* [Table for STATE System Current Cigarette Use Among Adults Interactive Map](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xmxq-jxrr) - 2011-2016. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System.  BRFSS Survey Data.  The BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. The data for the STATE System were extracted from the annual BRFSS surveys from participating states.  Tobacco topics included are cigarette smoking status, cigarette smoking prevalence by demographics, cigarette smoking frequency, and quit attempts. NOTE: these data are not to be compared with BRFSS data collected 2010 and prior, as the methodologies were changed. Please refer to the FAQs / Methodology sections for more details.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Immunization](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/tvus-njbk) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [Graph of Recommended Funding Levels by Program Components Per Capita (CDC Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs 2014)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ejbi-gym3) - 2014. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs. Funding. CDC's Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs is an evidence-based guide to help states plan and establish effective tobacco control programs to prevent and reduce tobacco use.  These data update Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2007.  Data are reported at total and per capita funding levels. Data include recommended and minimum total funding levels for state programs, in addition to funding breakdowns by intervention areas such as: State and Community Interventions, Mass-Reach Health Communication Interventions, Cessation Interventions, Surveillance and Evaluation, and Infrastructure, Administration, and Management.* [Any Distance Visual Impairment (Age-Adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/yrup-t8tm) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [DHDSP - Graph of US Adults (18+) with hypertension who have their blood pressure controlled](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/37qi-ub32) - 1999-2000 forward. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is a program of studies designed to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the United States. The survey is unique in that it combines interviews and physical examinations. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [HF Prevalence by age](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/432i-ykzv) - 1999-2000 forward. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is a program of studies designed to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the United States. The survey is unique in that it combines interviews and physical examinations. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [Alcohol-Attributable Fractions – Excessive Alcohol Use](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/bn42-uu4e) - ARDI is an online application that provides national and state estimates of alcohol-related health impacts, including deaths and years of potential life lost (YPLL). These estimates are calculated for 54 acute and chronic causes using alcohol-attributable fractions, and are reported by age and sex for 2006-2010. This dataset provides estimates of the proportion of deaths from various causes that are attributable to alcohol.* [Glaucoma (Age-adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/tq5i-ghag) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [Table of Smokefree Non-Tribal Gaming Facilities (CDC STATE System Tobacco Legislation- Smokefree Indoor Air)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/f6ee-eq37) - 1995-2018. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System. Legislation – Smokefree Indoor Air. The STATE System houses current and historical state-level legislative data on tobacco use prevention and control policies. Data are reported on a quarterly basis. Data include information related to state legislation on smokefree indoor air in areas such as: Bars, Commercial Day Care Centers, Government Multi-Unit Housing, Government Worksites, Home-Based Day Care Centers, Hotels and Motels, Personal Vehicles, Private Multi-Unit Housing, Private Worksites, Restaurants, Bingo Halls, Casinos, Enclosed Arenas, Grocery Stores, Hospitals, Hospital Campuses, Malls, Mental Health Outpatient and Residential Facilities, Prisons, Public Transportation, Racetrack Casinos, Substance Abuse Outpatient and Residential Facilities.* [CDC STATE System E-Cigarette Legislation - Smokefree Indoor Air](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/wan8-w4er) - 1995-2018. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System.  E-Cigarette Legislation—Smokefree Indoor Air. The STATE System houses current and historical state-level legislative data on tobacco use prevention and control policies. Data are reported on a quarterly basis. Data include information related to state legislation on smokefree indoor air in areas such as: Bars, Commercial Day Care Centers, Government Multi-Unit Housing, Government Worksites, Home-Based Day Care Centers, Hotels and Motels, Personal Vehicles, Private Multi-Unit Housing, Private Worksites, Restaurants, Bingo Halls, Casinos, Enclosed Arenas, Grocery Stores, Hospitals, Hospital Campuses, Malls, Mental Health Outpatient and Residential Facilities, Prisons, Public Transportation, Racetrack Casinos, Substance Abuse Outpatient and Residential Facilities.* [Map of Cigarette Consumption Per Capita (Orzechowski and Walker Tax Burden on Tobacco)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/hdg8-p5wc) - 1970-2017. Orzechowski and Walker. Tax Burden on Tobacco. Tax burden data was obtained from the annual compendium on tobacco revenue and industry statistics, The Tax Burden on Tobacco. Data are reported on an annual basis; Data include federal and state-level information regarding taxes applied to the price of a pack of cigarettes.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Oral Health](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/w3xt-aph7) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Prevalence of High Blood Pressure](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/wqmg-a9hj) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [HRQOL: Chart of Mean days of activity limitation by state](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/hqg2-9yaj) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs - Number of health agencies serving large jurisdictions with a dental program directed by a dental professional with public health training](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/vzz2-3hb7) - 2018. The ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs contain information useful in tracking states’ efforts to improve oral health and contributions to progress toward the national targets for Healthy People objectives for oral health. A subset of the information collected from the most recent five years is provided on the Oral Health Data website. For more information, see http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/synopses/index.html* [Blind or Serious Difficulty Seeing (Age-Adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/pw26-qysf) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Prevalence of Arthritis](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/x7z5-ytdu) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Blind or Serious Difficulty Seeing (Age-Adjusted Prevalence by Total)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/cejb-p7hn) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [BRFSS: Table of Hypertension Awareness](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/qk2m-jri4) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Graph of Postpartum Contraception Use](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/pyx3-qe4e) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Table for STATE System Appropriations/Grants Total Per Capita (UIC) Interactive Map](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/d6kg-4sxv) - 1991-2016. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System. Funding Data, Appropriations (1991-2016) and Expenditures (2008-2016). Appropriations data show public funds allocated to/by a particular state for tobacco prevention and control. They are not necessarily expended. Appropriations are from four major funding sources, Federal, state, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF), and the American Legacy Foundation (Legacy). Expenditures are amounts spent by state tobacco control programs on tobacco prevention and control. Expenditure data are available by CDC Best Practices Program Components (State and Community Interventions, Health Communication Interventions, Cessation Interventions, Surveillance and Evaluation, and Administration and Management). Expenditures from 2008 to 2014 are compared against 2007 CDC Best Practices Recommendations; expenditures from 2015 and forward are compared against 2014 CDC Best Practices Recommendations.* [Alcohol-Attributable Fractions – Any Alcohol Use](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/m7ny-6tvy) - ARDI is an online application that provides national and state estimates of alcohol-related health impacts, including deaths and years of potential life lost (YPLL). These estimates are calculated for 54 acute and chronic causes using alcohol-attributable fractions, and are reported by age and sex for 2006-2010. This dataset provides estimates of the proportion of deaths from various causes that are attributable to alcohol.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Overarching Conditions](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/7nzt-5wft) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current HIV-AIDS testing among adults](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/gbdh-6xcr) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Table of Comprehensive Medicaid Coverage of Treatments (Lung Association Cessation Coverage)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/pq9e-uf4u) - 2008-2018. American Lung Association. Cessation Coverage – Medicaid Coverage of Cessation Treatments.  Medicaid data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health were obtained from the State Tobacco Cessation Coverage Database, developed and administered by the American Lung Association.  Data from 2008-2012 are reported on an annual basis; beginning in 2013 data are reported on a quarterly basis.  Data include state-level information on Medicaid coverage of approved medications by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for tobacco cessation treatment and the types of counseling recommended by the Public Health Service (PHS). Approved medications by the FDA include: Nicotine patch, Nicotine gum, Nicotine lozenge, Nicotine nasal spray, Nicotine inhaler, Bupropion (Zyban) and Varenicline (Chantix). The types of counseling recommended by the PHS are: individual counseling, group counseling and phone counseling.  Data do not include phone counseling which is available in every state through quitlines.* [Table of Medicaid Coverage of Treatments – Medications (Lung Association Cessation Coverage)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/pib3-gftc) - 2008-2018. American Lung Association. Cessation Coverage – Medicaid Coverage of Treatments – Medications.  Medicaid data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health were obtained from the State Tobacco Cessation Coverage Database, developed and administered by the American Lung Association.  Data from 2008-2012 are reported on an annual basis; beginning in 2013 data are reported on a quarterly basis.  Data include state-level information on Medicaid coverage of approved medications by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for tobacco cessation treatment. Approved medications by the FDA include: Nicotine patch, Nicotine gum, Nicotine lozenge, Nicotine nasal spray, Nicotine inhaler, Bupropion (Zyban) and Varenicline (Chantix).* [Table of Medicaid Coverage of Treatments (Lung Association Cessation Coverage)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/83hz-w2t5) - 2008-2018. American Lung Association. Cessation Coverage – Medicaid Coverage of Cessation Treatments.  Medicaid data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health were obtained from the State Tobacco Cessation Coverage Database, developed and administered by the American Lung Association.  Data from 2008-2012 are reported on an annual basis; beginning in 2013 data are reported on a quarterly basis.  Data include state-level information on Medicaid coverage of approved medications by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for tobacco cessation treatment and the types of counseling recommended by the Public Health Service (PHS). Approved medications by the FDA include: Nicotine patch, Nicotine gum, Nicotine lozenge, Nicotine nasal spray, Nicotine inhaler, Bupropion (Zyban) and Varenicline (Chantix). The types of counseling recommended by the PHS are: individual counseling, group counseling and phone counseling.  Data do not include phone counseling which is available in every state through quitlines.* [Map of Comprehensive Medicaid Coverage of Treatments (Lung Association Cessation Coverage)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/42jv-xiec) - 2008-2018. American Lung Association. Cessation Coverage – Comprehensive Medicaid Coverage of Treatments.  Medicaid data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health were obtained from the State Tobacco Cessation Coverage Database, developed and administered by the American Lung Association.  Data from 2008-2012 are reported on an annual basis; beginning in 2013 data are reported on a quarterly basis.  Data include state-level information on comprehensive Medicaid coverage of all approved medications by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for tobacco cessation treatment and types of counseling recommended by the Public Health Service (PHS). Approved medications by the FDA include: Nicotine patch, Nicotine gum, Nicotine lozenge, Nicotine nasal spray, Nicotine inhaler, Bupropion (Zyban) and Varenicline (Chantix). The types of counseling recommended by the PHS are: individual counseling, group counseling and phone counseling.  Data do not include phone counseling which is available in every state through quitlines.* [CHD prevalence by age](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/5afa-4mxx) - 1999-2000 forward. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is a program of studies designed to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the United States. The survey is unique in that it combines interviews and physical examinations. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Binge Drinking among adults](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xnuv-rv9p) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [HRQOL: Chart of Mean mentally unhealthy days - Nationwide Trend Overall](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/4z8k-2i2x) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Adult Obesity Prevalence - Nationwide (States and DC)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/tcmp-75zb) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Table for STATE System Smokefree Indoor Air - Private Worksites, Restaurants, and Bars Interactive Map](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/3c7d-6fm8) - 1995-2018. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System. Legislation – Smokefree Indoor Air. The STATE System houses current and historical state-level legislative data on tobacco use prevention and control policies. Data are reported on a quarterly basis. Data include information related to state legislation on smokefree indoor air in areas such as: Bars, Commercial Day Care Centers, Government Multi-Unit Housing, Government Worksites, Home-Based Day Care Centers, Hotels and Motels, Personal Vehicles, Private Multi-Unit Housing, Private Worksites, Restaurants, Bingo Halls, Casinos, Enclosed Arenas, Grocery Stores, Hospitals, Hospital Campuses, Malls, Mental Health Outpatient and Residential Facilities, Prisons, Public Transportation, Racetrack Casinos, Substance Abuse Outpatient and Residential Facilities.* [Going Smokefree Matters - Multiunit Housing Infographic](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/d9eu-6czr) - Explore the Going Smokefree Matters – Multiunit Housing Infographic which outlines key facts related to the effects of secondhand smoke exposure in multiunit housing.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2002](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/dnxe-zgxs) - 2002.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Going Smokefree Matters - Bars and Restaurants Infographic](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/e92c-t3mi) - Explore the Going Smokefree Matters – Bars and Restaurants Infographic which outlines key facts related to the effects of secondhand smoke exposure in bars and restaurants.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2004](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xyxp-dxa9) - 2004. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2005](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/pj7z-f3xf) - 2005. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [American Community Survey (ACS) – Vision and Eye Health Surveillance](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/thir-stei) - 2014 - 2015. This dataset is a de-identified summary table of vision and eye health data indicators from ACS, stratified by all available combinations of age group, race/ethnicity, gender, and state. ACS is an annual nationwide survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau that collects information on demographic, social, economic, and housing characteristics of the U.S. population. Approximate sample size is 3 million annually. ACS data for VEHSS includes one question related to Visual Function. Data were suppressed for cell sizes less than 30 persons, or where the relative standard error more than 30% of the mean. Data will be updated as it becomes available. Detailed information on VEHSS ACS analyses can be found on the VEHSS ACS webpage (link). Additional information about ACS can be found on the U.S. Census Bureau website (https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/programs-surveys/acs/about/ACS_Information_Guide.pdf). The VEHSS ACS dataset was last updated in June 2018.* [Healthy People 2020 Tobacco Use Infographic](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/b3ya-8vn4) - Explore the Healthy People 2020 Tobacco Use Infographic which shows the target goals of the Tobacco Use Leading Health Indicators (LHIs).* [BRFSS: Table of Oral Health](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/96er-cudr) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [500 Cities: City-level Data (GIS Friendly Format), 2016 release](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/k56w-7tny) - 2013, 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. 500 cities project city-level data in GIS-friendly format. This dataset can be joined with city-level spatial data in a geographic information system (GIS) to produce maps of 27 measures at the city-level.
Note: During the process of uploading the 2015 estimates, CDC found a data discrepancy in the published 500 Cities data for the 2014 city-level obesity crude prevalence estimates caused when reformatting the SAS data file to the open data format. . The small area estimation model and code were correct. This data discrepancy only affected the 2014 city-level obesity crude prevalence estimates on the Socrata open data file, the GIS-friendly data file, and the 500 Cities online application. The other obesity estimates (city-level age-adjusted and tract-level) and the Mapbooks were not affected. No other measures were affected. The correct estimates are update in this dataset on October 25, 2017.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2009](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/qwpv-wpc8) - 2009. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2000](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/3hwj-hqmh) - 2000. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2007](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/vr6p-ert2) - 2007. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) Prevalence Data (2010 and prior)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/y4ft-s73h) - 1995-2010. BRFSS land line only prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Behavioral Risk Factors – Vision and Eye Health Surveillance](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/vkwg-yswv) - 2013-2016. This dataset is a de-identified summary table of vision and eye health data indicators from BRFSS, stratified by all available combinations of age group, race/ethnicity, gender, risk factor and state. BRFSS is a system of telephone surveys conducted by CDC that collect state data about U.S. residents regarding their health-related risk behaviors, chronic health conditions, and use of preventive services. BRFSS completes more than 400,000 adult interviews each year across 50 states, the District of Columbia, and three U.S. territories. BRFSS data for VEHSS includes one question from the core component related to Visual Function. Data were suppressed for cell sizes less than 30 persons, or where the relative standard error more than 30% of the mean. Data will be updated as it becomes available. Detailed information on VEHSS BRFSS analyses can be found on the VEHSS BRFSS webpage (link). General information about BRFSS can be found on the BRFSS website (https://www.cdc.gov/brfss). The VEHSS BRFSS dataset was last updated in June 2018.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Reproductive Health](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xrn9-9eas) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [HRQOL: Chart of Percentage with fair or poor self-rated health: Overall](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/uech-tyhz) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [Table of Medicaid Barriers to Treatments (Lung Association Cessation Coverage)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/wcfv-gpn6) - 2008-2018. American Lung Association. Cessation Coverage – Medicaid Barriers to Treatments.  Medicaid data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health were obtained from the State Tobacco Cessation Coverage Database, developed and administered by the American Lung Association.  Data from 2008-2012 are reported on an annual basis; beginning in 2013 data are reported on a quarterly basis.  Data include state-level information on Medicaid policies that make it hard for tobacco users to access cessation treatment and discourage them from quitting.  Medicaid barriers include: co-payments, prior authorization, counseling required for medications, stepped care therapy, limits on duration, annual limits, lifetime limits and other barriers such as dollar limits, limits on the number of monthly prescriptions, no provision for refills or limits on which type of provider can perform treatment.* [NOHSS Adult Indicators - 2010 And Prior BRFSS](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/aemk-wcbf) - Data from BRFSS for indicators of adult oral health for 1999 and even years from 2002 through 2010. National estimates are represented by the median prevalence among 50 states and the District of Columbia data. Estimates are prepared from the BRFSS public use data sets. Estimates in this file are not age adjusted, and may differ slightly from estimates available from the BRFSS web site or Chronic Disease Indicators due to small differences in definition, age adjustment or rounding. For more information, see: http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/Adult_Indicators.html* [Behavioral Risk Factors: Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) MMSA Age-adjusted Prevalence Data (2011 to Present)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/at7e-uhkc) - 2011 to present. BRFSS SMART MMSA age-adjusted prevalence combined land line and cell phone data. The Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) project uses the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) to analyze the data of selected metropolitan statistical areas (MMSAs) with 500 or more respondents. BRFSS data can be used to identify emerging health problems, establish and track health objectives, and develop and evaluate public health policies and programs. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: http://apps.nccd.cdc.gov/BRFSSQuest/index.asp* [500 Cities: Bar graph of the prevalence of men and women aged 65 and older who are up-to-date with the recommended core set of clinical preventive services](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/svwc-ija5) - This is a bar graph showing the prevalence of men and women aged 65 years and older who are up-to-date with the recommended core set of clinical preventive services. This project provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2014, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) – Vision and Eye Health Surveillance](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/2t2r-sf6s) - 2014. This dataset is a de-identified summary table of vision and eye health data indicators from NHIS, stratified by all available combinations of age group, race/ethnicity, gender, and risk factor. NHIS is an annual household survey conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics at CDC that monitors trends in illness, disabilities, and progress towards national health objectives. Approximate sample size is 35,000 households and 87,500 persons annually. NHIS data for VEHSS includes questions related to Visual Function. Data were suppressed for cell sizes less than 30 persons, or where the relative standard error more than 30% of the mean. Data will be updated as it becomes available. Detailed information on VEHSS NHIS analyses can be found on the VEHSS NHIS webpage (link). Additional information about NHIS can be found on the NHIS website (http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhis/about_nhis.htm). The VEHSS NHIS dataset was last updated in June 2018.* [Global Tobacco Surveillance System (GTSS) - Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/57qw-ifet) - 1999-2011. The GYTS is a school-based survey that collects data on students aged 13–15 years using a standardized methodology for constructing the sample frame, selecting schools and classes, and processing data. The GYTS surveillance system is intended to enhance the capacity of countries to design, implement, and evaluate tobacco control and prevention programs. Funding for the GYTS has been provided by the Canadian Public Health Association, National Cancer Institute, United Nations Children Emergency Fund, and the World Health Organization—Tobacco Free Initiative.* [Years of Potential Life Lost due to Any Alcohol Use](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/x22x-fup2) - ARDI is an online application that provides national and state estimates of alcohol-related health impacts, including deaths and years of potential life lost (YPLL). These estimates are calculated for 54 acute and chronic causes using alcohol-attributable fractions, and are reported by age and sex for 2006-2010. This dataset estimates the total number of alcohol-related years of life lost resulting from premature death.* [500 Cities: Local Data for Better Health, 2017 release updated](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/vurf-k5wr) - This is the complete dataset for the 500 Cities project 2017 release. This dataset includes 2015, 2014 model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data (2015, 2014), Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015, 2010-2014 estimates. Because some questions are only asked every other year in the BRFSS, there are 7 measures from the 2014 BRFSS that are the same in the 2017 release as the previous 2016 release. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [BRFSS: Table of Tobacco Use](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/bq95-jg9r) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [LA Tracts](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/wugi-fvfv) - This is the complete dataset for the 500 Cities project 2017 release. This dataset includes 2015, 2014 model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data (2015, 2014), Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015, 2010-2014 estimates. Because some questions are only asked every other year in the BRFSS, there are 7 measures from the 2014 BRFSS that are the same in the 2017 release as the previous 2016 release. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Local Data for Better Health, 2016 release](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/9z78-nsfp) - This is the complete dataset for the 500 Cities project 2016 release. This dataset includes 2013, 2014 model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data (2013, 2014), Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2009-2013, 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.
Note: During the process of uploading the 2015 estimates, CDC found a data discrepancy in the published 500 Cities data for the 2014 city-level obesity crude prevalence estimates caused when reformatting the SAS data file to the open data format. . The small area estimation model and code were correct. This data discrepancy only affected the 2014 city-level obesity crude prevalence estimates on the Socrata open data file, the GIS-friendly data file, and the 500 Cities online application. The other obesity estimates (city-level age-adjusted and tract-level) and the Mapbooks were not affected. No other measures were affected. The correct estimates are update in this dataset on October 25, 2017.* [CDC STATE System Tobacco Legislation - Smokefree Indoor Air](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/32fd-hyzc) - 1995-2018. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System. Legislation – Smokefree Indoor Air. The STATE System houses current and historical state-level legislative data on tobacco use prevention and control policies. Data are reported on a quarterly basis. Data include information related to state legislation on smokefree indoor air in areas such as: Bars, Commercial Day Care Centers, Government Multi-Unit Housing, Government Worksites, Home-Based Day Care Centers, Hotels and Motels, Personal Vehicles, Private Multi-Unit Housing, Private Worksites, Restaurants, Bingo Halls, Casinos, Enclosed Arenas, Grocery Stores, Hospitals, Hospital Campuses, Malls, Mental Health Outpatient and Residential Facilities, Prisons, Public Transportation, Racetrack Casinos, Substance Abuse Outpatient and Residential Facilities.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2003](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/u76f-m89e) - 2003. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Going Smokefree Matters - In Your Home Infographic](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/k4xj-uge6) - Explore the Going Smokefree Matters – In Your Home Infographic which outlines key facts related to the effects of secondhand smoke exposure in the home.* [Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults Infographic](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ky6r-8p95) - Explore the Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults Infographic which outlines key facts related to current smoking among adults. For accessibility issues contact OSHData@cdc.gov.* [500 Cities: Census Tract-level Data (GIS Friendly Format), 2017 release](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/kucs-wizg) - 2015, 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. 500 cities project census tract-level data in GIS-friendly format can be joined with census tract spatial data in a geographic information system (GIS) to produce maps of 27 measures at the census tract level. There are 7 measures in this 2017 release from the 2014 BRFSS that were the same as the 2016 release.* [ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs - States with cleft lip/palate registries and referral systems](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/uac3-ned3) - 2018. The ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs contain information useful in tracking states’ efforts to improve oral health and contributions to progress toward the national targets for Healthy People objectives for oral health. A subset of the information collected from the most recent five years is provided on the Oral Health Data website. For more information, see http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/synopses/index.html* [States with Dental Sealant Programs](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/2jdv-bvqb) - 2018. The ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs contain information useful in tracking states’ efforts to improve oral health and contributions to progress toward the national targets for Healthy People objectives for oral health. A subset of the information collected from the most recent five years is provided on the Oral Health Data website. For more information, see http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/synopses/index.html* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Older Adults](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/kpzw-wy6p) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [NOHSS Adult Indicators - Adults who have visited a dentist or dental clinic in the past year](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/jbym-fau6) - 2016. Data from BRFSS for indicators of adult oral health for 1999 and even years from 2002 through 2016. National estimates are represented by the median prevalence among 50 states and the District of Columbia data. Estimates are prepared from the BRFSS public use data sets. Estimates in this file are not age adjusted, and may differ slightly from estimates available from the BRFSS web site or Chronic Disease Indicators due to small differences in definition, age adjustment or rounding.  For more information, see: http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/Adult_Indicators.html* [BRFSS: Table of Health Status](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/y94n-rgzt) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Graph of Tobacco Use 3 Months Before and Last 3 Months of Pregnancy](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/mbvg-apdj) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Prevalence of Diabetes](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/7yww-23y7) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [HRQOL: Map of Mean days of activity limitation - Overall](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/8tkg-hmjx) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Healthcare Coverage](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/9nys-gcy2) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [DHDSP - Graph of Cardiovascular Disease Mortality Among US Adults (18+)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/3f98-kxvx) - 2000 forward. NVSS is a secure, web-based data management system that collects and disseminates the Nation's official vital statistics. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data are organized by location (national and state) and indicator; NVSS mortality data include CVDs (e.g., heart failure). The data can be viewed by temporal trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [NOHSS Adult Indicators - Adults who have visited a dentist or dental clinic in the past year](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/c2kg-wtx6) - 2016. Data from BRFSS for indicators of adult oral health for 1999 and even years from 2002 through 2016. National estimates are represented by the median prevalence among 50 states and the District of Columbia data. Estimates are prepared from the BRFSS public use data sets. Estimates in this file are not age adjusted, and may differ slightly from estimates available from the BRFSS web site or Chronic Disease Indicators due to small differences in definition, age adjustment or rounding.  For more information, see: http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/Adult_Indicators.html* [500 Cities: Older adult men aged >=65 years who are up to date on a core set of clinical preventive services: Flu shot past year, PPV shot ever, Colorectal cancer screening](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/9dc5-52r9) - 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2014, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [BRFSS: Table of Prostate Cancer](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/jwtk-e7wd) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [500 Cities: Mammography use among women aged 50-74 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/nnmv-qvwt) - 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2014, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Arthritis among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/4pf2-u7sx) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Current smoking among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/fzkw-fiad) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [VHI - Reasons for No Eye Care (Age-adjusted Prevalence)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/bd6e-5eqp) - In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [500 Cities: Cholesterol screening among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/myk4-ptre) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Physical health not good for >=14 days among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/5w59-iqre) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Cancer (excluding skin cancer) among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/9f46-utxd) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Binge drinking among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/gqat-rcqz) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [AMI Prevalence by age](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/5uaw-dmfh) - 1999-2000 forward. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is a program of studies designed to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the United States. The survey is unique in that it combines interviews and physical examinations. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [500 Cities: Diagnosed diabetes among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/cn78-b9bj) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Older adult women aged >=65 years who are up to date on a core set of clinial preventive services: Flu shot past year, PPV shot ever, Colorectal cancer screening, and Mammogram past 2 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/qcg8-a59b) - 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2014, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [BRFSS: Table of Injury](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ifvu-7vvt) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [BRFSS: Table of Physical Activity](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/urh8-82n7) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [500 Cities: Coronary heart disease among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/cqcq-r6f8) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [BRFSS: Table of Health Care Access/Coverage](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/f7a2-7inb) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs - States with dental directors or statewide oral health coalitions](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/473a-5348) - 2018. The ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs contain information useful in tracking states’ efforts to improve oral health and contributions to progress toward the national targets for Healthy People objectives for oral health. A subset of the information collected from the most recent five years is provided on the Oral Health Data website. For more information, see http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/synopses/index.html* [BRFSS: Table of Women's Health](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/i8ja-z54a) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/aqr6-8kj8) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [DHDSP - Graph of US Adults (18+) with hypertension](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/m62w-2ffr) - 1999-2000 forward. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is a program of studies designed to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the United States. The survey is unique in that it combines interviews and physical examinations. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [Graph of Unintended Pregnancies Among Women Having a Live Birth](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/nauw-t2ir) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Asthma](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/us8e-ubyj) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [BRFSS: Table of Immunization](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ehiz-zk8j) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Graph of Rates of Breastfeeding Initiation and Continuation at 1 and 2 Months](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/bxam-2zsw) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [500 Cities: Visits to doctor for routine checkup within the past year among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/2q6t-jyye) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Chart of prevalence of high blood pressure and adults taking medications for high blood pressure](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/swim-pke9) - This is a chart comparing the prevalence of adults with high blood pressure to the prevalence of adults taking medications for high blood pressure. This project provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Current lack of health insurance among adults aged 18-64 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/8dbf-5cp2) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [BRFSS: Table of HIV-AIDS](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/475u-gzzh) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Alcohol-Attributable Deaths due to Any Alcohol Use](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/6ss6-4usg) - ARDI is an online application that provides national and state estimates of alcohol-related health impacts, including deaths and years of potential life lost (YPLL). These estimates are calculated for 54 acute and chronic causes using alcohol-attributable fractions, and are reported by age and sex for 2006-2010. This estimates the total number of deaths attributable to alcohol.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Weight Status](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/gjw6-9wda) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Cancer](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/u9ek-bct3) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Cardiovascular Disease](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/232j-jiq5) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Cancer](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/u9ek-bct3) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Cardiovascular Disease](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/232j-jiq5) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [BRFSS: Table of Alcohol Consumption](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/dts9-xy2f) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [500 Cities: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xzgm-d4ya) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [Years of Potential Life Lost due to Excessive Alcohol Use](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/3yzg-ws44) - ARDI is an online application that provides national and state estimates of alcohol-related health impacts, including deaths and years of potential life lost (YPLL). These estimates are calculated for 54 acute and chronic causes using alcohol-attributable fractions, and are reported by age and sex for 2006-2010. This dataset estimates the total number of alcohol-related years of life lost resulting from premature death.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Mental Health](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ixrt-gnsg) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [HRQOL: Chart of Mean Physically unhealthy days - Nationwide Trend Overall](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/x6uh-nuc9) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [500 Cities: Stroke among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/se7n-wpp3) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [Chart of Eye Exams by Race/Ethnicity for National (States and DC) - 2015](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/6vmf-yqmk) - 2014-2015. This dataset is a de-identified summary table of vision and eye health data indicators from Medicare, stratified by all available combinations of age group, race/ethnicity, gender, and state. Medicare claims for VEHSS includes beneficiaries who were fully enrolled in Medicare Part B Fee-for-Service (FFS) for the duration of the year. Medicare claims provide a convenience sample that includes approximately 30 million individuals annually, which represents nearly 89% of the US population aged 65 and older and 3.3% of the US population younger than 65, including persons disabled due to blindness. Medicare data for VEHSS include Service Utilization and Medical Diagnoses indicators. Data were suppressed for de-identification to ensure protection of patient privacy. Data will be updated as it becomes available. Detailed information on VEHSS Medicare analyses can be found on the VEHSS Medicare webpage (link). Information on available Medicare claims data can be found on the ResDac website (www.resdac.org). The VEHSS Medicare dataset was last updated in June 2018.* [DHDSP - Graph of Heart Disease Mortality Among US Adults (18+)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/idqp-cicu) - 2000 forward. NVSS is a secure, web-based data management system that collects and disseminates the Nation's official vital statistics. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data are organized by location (national and state) and indicator; NVSS mortality data include CVDs (e.g., heart failure). The data can be viewed by temporal trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [500 Cities: Mental health not good for >=14 days among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/i2ek-k3pa) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Prevalence of Asthma](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xb47-c5mz) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [HRQOL: Chart of Mean physically or mentally unhealthy days: Overall](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/fq5d-abxc) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [BRFSS: Table of Colorectal Cancer Screening](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/evnt-bfr6) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [BRFSS: Table of Demographics](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/6rsf-i7tq) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [BRFSS: Table of Chronic Health Indicators](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/u7k3-tu8b) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Medicare claims – Vision and Eye Health Surveillance](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/e28h-tx85) - 2014-2015. This dataset is a de-identified summary table of vision and eye health data indicators from Medicare, stratified by all available combinations of age group, race/ethnicity, gender, and state. Medicare claims for VEHSS includes beneficiaries who were fully enrolled in Medicare Part B Fee-for-Service (FFS) for the duration of the year. Medicare claims provide a convenience sample that includes approximately 30 million individuals annually, which represents nearly 89% of the US population aged 65 and older and 3.3% of the US population younger than 65, including persons disabled due to blindness. Medicare data for VEHSS include Service Utilization and Medical Diagnoses indicators. Data were suppressed for de-identification to ensure protection of patient privacy. Data will be updated as it becomes available. Detailed information on VEHSS Medicare analyses can be found on the VEHSS Medicare webpage (link). Information on available Medicare claims data can be found on the ResDac website (www.resdac.org). The VEHSS Medicare dataset was last updated in June 2018.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Adult Obesity Prevalence - By Single State](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xtew-z72g) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [500 Cities: Visits to dentist or dental clinic among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/p8hc-uxam) - 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2014, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [HRQOL: Chart of Percentage with 14 or more mentally unhealthy days (Frequent Mental Distress)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/yjcv-dt4c) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Flu Shots taken by Adults 65+](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/7rub-a6ea) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [500 Cities: Fecal occult blood test, sigmoidoscopy, or colonoscopy among adults aged 50-75 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/e6r4-eg9y) - 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2014, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Taking medicine for high blood pressure control among adults aged >=18 years with high blood pressure](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/4peq-qp55) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [Graph of Rates of Infant Sleeping on Back](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/u2mu-8h52) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [500 Cities: Papanicolaou smear use among adult women aged 21-65 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/qc44-h72x) - 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2014, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: High cholesterol among adults aged >=18 years who have been screened in the past 5 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/mc6z-sjie) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Chronic kidney disease among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/dnkc-3whb) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Arthritis](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/qean-rqre) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [BRFSS: Table of Cholesterol Awareness](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xar7-74yx) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Chronic Kidney Disease](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xq2a-if3z) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [National Survey of Children’s Health (NSCH) – Vision and Eye Health Surveillance](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/de4p-4g3k) - 2007-2008, 2011-2012. This dataset is a de-identified summary table of vision and eye health data indicators from NSCH, stratified by all available combinations of age group, race/ethnicity, gender, risk factor and state. NSCH is a telephone survey conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics at CDC (currently conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau) that examines the physical and emotional health of children 0-17 years of age. Approximate sample size is 95,000 over two rounds of data collection. NSCH data for VEHSS includes one question related to Visual Function. Data were suppressed for cell sizes less than 30 persons, or where the relative standard error more than 30% of the mean. Data will be updated as it becomes available. Detailed information on VEHSS NSCH analyses can be found on the VEHSS NSCH webpage (link). Additional information about NSCH can be found on the NSCH website (http://childhealthdata.org/learn/NSCH). The VEHSS NSCH dataset was last updated in June 2018.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2006](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/akmt-4qtj) - 2006. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [DHDSP - Graph of Adults 65+ with heart failure as the principal diagnosis](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/2e2z-vjkx) - 2003 forward. CMS compiles claims data for Medicare and Medicaid patients across a variety of categories and years. This includes Inpatient and Outpatient claims, Master Beneficiary Summary Files, and many other files. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data are organized by location (national and state) and indicator. The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by sex and race/ethnicity.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2001](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/u93h-quup) - 2001. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) Age-Adjusted Prevalence Data (2011 to present)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/d2rk-yvas) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone age-adjusted prevalence data. The BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. 
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.

Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). 
Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf 
Glossary: http://apps.nccd.cdc.gov/BRFSSQuest/index.asp* [Going Smokefree Matters - Casinos Infographic](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xdg2-nh8n) - Explore the Going Smokefree Matters - Casinos Infographic which outlines key facts related to the effects of secondhand smoke exposure in casinos.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2008](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/4ya2-fkvt) - 2008. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Graph of Daily Multivitamin Use Just Prior to Pregnancy](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ce73-p89e) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Graph of Smoking-Attributable Expenditures by Type (Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs (SAMMEC))](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/c9vv-nx9r) - 2005-2009. SAMMEC - Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs. Smoking attributable expenditures (SAEs) are excess health care expenditures attributable to cigarette smoking, by type of service, among adults ages 19 years of age and older.* [500 Cities: Obesity among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/bjvu-3y7d) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [Graph of Alcohol Use 3 Months Before and Last 3 Months of Pregnancy](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/grbx-2j68) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Tobacco](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/rrbt-bhen) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [Alcohol-Attributable Deaths due to Excessive Alcohol Use](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/yqqr-a7uy) - ARDI is an online application that provides national and state estimates of alcohol-related health impacts, including deaths and years of potential life lost (YPLL). These estimates are calculated for 54 acute and chronic causes using alcohol-attributable fractions, and are reported by age and sex for 2006-2010. This estimates the total number of deaths attributable to alcohol.* [500 Cities: Sleeping less than 7 hours among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/eqbn-8mpz) - 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2014, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [Youth And Tobacco Use Infographic](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/g9dy-mhts) - Explore the Youth and Tobacco Use Infographic which outlines key facts related to tobacco use among youth.* [Behavioral Risk Factors: Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) County Prevalence Data (2010 and prior)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/acme-vg9e) - 2002-2010. BRFSS SMART County Prevalence land line only data. The Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) project uses the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) to analyze the data of selected counties with 500 or more respondents. BRFSS data can be used to identify emerging health problems, establish and track health objectives, and develop and evaluate public health policies and programs. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [500 Cities: City-level Data (GIS Friendly Format), 2017 release, old data moved](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/djk3-k3zs) - * [NOHSS Adult Indicators](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/jz6n-v26y) - 2012-2016 (even years). Data from BRFSS for indicators of adult oral health for even years from 2012 through 2016. National estimates are represented by the median prevalence among 50 states and the District of Columbia data. Estimates are prepared from the BRFSS public use data sets. Estimates in this file are not age adjusted, and may differ slightly from estimates available from the BRFSS web site or Chronic Disease Indicators due to small differences in definition, age adjustment or rounding.  For more information, see: http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/Adult_Indicators.html* [Global Tobacco Surveillance System (GTSS) - Global Health Professions Student Survey (GHPSS)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/x6ag-8y7r) - 2005-2011. The World Health Organization, CDC, and the Canadian Public Health Association, developed the GHPSS to collect data on tobacco use and cessation counseling among health professional students in all WHO member states. GHPSS is a standardized school-based survey of third-year students pursuing advanced degrees in dentistry, medicine, nursing, or pharmacy. It is conducted in schools during regular class sessions. GHPSS follows an anonymous, self-administered format for data collection. GHPSS uses a core questionnaire on demographics, prevalence of cigarette smoking and other tobacco use, knowledge and attitudes about tobacco use, exposure to secondhand smoke, desire for smoking cessation, and training received regarding patient counseling on smoking cessation techniques. Questionnaires are translated into local languages as needed. GHPSS has a standardized methodology for selecting participating schools and classes and uniform data processing procedures.* [Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs (SAMMEC) - Smoking-Attributable Expenditures (SAE) Glossary and Methodology](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/3kjq-j5dm) - Download the latest version of the Glossary and Methodology File* [ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs - Selected indicators](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/vwmz-4ja3) - 2011-2018. The ASTDD Synopses of State Oral Health Programs contain information useful in tracking states’ efforts to improve oral health and contributions to progress toward the national targets for Healthy People objectives for oral health. A subset of the information collected from the most recent five years is provided on the Oral Health Data website. For more information, see http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/synopses/index.html* [Behavioral Risk Factors: Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) MMSA Prevalence Data (2010 and Prior)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/waxm-p5qv) - 2002-2010. BRFSS SMART MMSA Prevalence land line only data. The Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) project uses the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) to analyze the data of selected metropolitan statistical areas (MMSAs) with 500 or more respondents. BRFSS data can be used to identify emerging health problems, establish and track health objectives, and develop and evaluate public health policies and programs. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Behavioral Risk Factor Data: Tobacco Use (2010 And Prior)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/fpp2-pp25) - 1996-2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System.  BRFSS Survey Data.  The BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. The data for the STATE System were extracted from the annual BRFSS surveys from participating states.  Tobacco topics included are cigarette smoking status, cigarette smoking prevalence by demographics, cigarette smoking frequency, and quit attempts.  NOTE:  these data are not to be compared with BRFSS data collected 2011 and forward, as the methodologies were changed.  Please refer to the FAQs / Methodology sections for more details.* [Behavioral Risk Factors: Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) MMSA Prevalence Data (2011 to Present)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/j32a-sa6u) - 2011 to present. BRFSS SMART MMSA Prevalence combined land line and cell phone data. The Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) project uses the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) to analyze the data of selected metropolitan statistical areas (MMSAs) with 500 or more respondents. BRFSS data can be used to identify emerging health problems, establish and track health objectives, and develop and evaluate public health policies and programs. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: http://apps.nccd.cdc.gov/BRFSSQuest/index.asp* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Alcohol](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/5hba-acwf) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [Graph of Maternal Prepregnancy Obesity Rates (BMI >=30)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/gktn-7mu9) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [500 Cities: High blood pressure among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ebxs-yc6e) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: No leisure-time physical activity among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/axqz-rkkp) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [Table of Medicaid Coverage of Treatments – Counseling (Lung Association Cessation Coverage)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/2nim-maxh) - 2008-2018. American Lung Association. Cessation Coverage – Medicaid Coverage of Treatments – Counseling.  Medicaid data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health were obtained from the State Tobacco Cessation Coverage Database, developed and administered by the American Lung Association.  Data from 2008-2012 are reported on an annual basis; beginning in 2013 data are reported on a quarterly basis.  Data include state-level information on types of counseling recommended by the Public Health Service (PHS).  The types of counseling recommended by the PHS are: individual counseling, group counseling and phone counseling.  Data do not include phone counseling which is available in every state through quitlines.* [Table for STATE System Comprehensive Medicaid Coverage of Cessation Treatments  Interactive Map](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/9krc-38hs) - 2008-2018. American Lung Association. Cessation Coverage.  Medicaid data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health were obtained from the State Tobacco Cessation Coverage Database, developed and administered by the American Lung Association.  Data from 2008-2012 are reported on an annual basis; beginning in 2013 data are reported on a quarterly basis.  Data include state-level information on Medicaid coverage of approved medications by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for tobacco cessation treatment; types of counseling recommended by the Public Health Service (PHS) and barriers to accessing cessation treatment. Note: Section 2502 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act requires all state Medicaid programs to cover all FDA-approved tobacco cessation medications as of January 1, 2014. However, states are currently in the process of modifying their coverage to come into compliance with this requirement. Data in the STATE System on Medicaid coverage of tobacco cessation medications reflect evidence of coverage that is found in documentable sources, and may not yet reflect medications covered under this requirement.* [500 Cities: Bar graph comparing prevalence of adults with high cholesterol to the prevalence of adults who have been screened for cholesterol in the past five years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/g5br-c7vq) - This is a bar graph comparing the prevalence of adults with high cholesterol to the prevalence of adults who have been screened for cholesterol in the past five years. This project provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [500 Cities: Current asthma among adults aged >=18 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/7zpf-ctr4) - 2015. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2015, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [BRFSS: Graph of Current Prevalence of Cardiovascular Disease](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/gfhd-2f5y) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [BRFSS: Table of Overweight and Obesity (BMI)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/fqb7-mgjf) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [500 Cities: All teeth lost among adults aged >=65 years](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/wuvj-j4u4) - 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. This is a filtered subset of the 500 Cities data that provides model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data 2014, Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2010-2014 estimates. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.* [NOHSS Child Indicators](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/qcai-zfj9) - Data for School year-end 1994 through year-end 2017.  State oral health surveys are the data sources for these indicators. States periodically conduct independent screening surveys of a probability sample designed to be representative of all third grade students in the state. Some states also conduct surveys of students in other grades in school, or of Head Start program enrollees. This surveillance activity is voluntary. States submit their data to the Association of State and Territorial Dental Directors (ASTDD), where the survey design and data collected are reviewed for quality and against the criteria for inclusion in NOHSS, before being sent to CDC for inclusion in Oral Health Data. For more information, see: http://www.cdc.gov/oralhealthdata/overview/childIndicators/* [National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) – Vision and Eye Health Surveillance](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/tdbk-8ubw) - 1999-2008; 2005-2008. This dataset is a de-identified summary table of vision and eye health data indicators from NHANES, stratified by all available combinations of age group, race/ethnicity, gender, and risk factor. NHANES is a program of studies conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics at CDC designed to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the U.S, and combines interviews and physical examinations. NHANES stopped collecting vision and eye health data in 2008. Approximate sample size is 5,000 persons per year. NHANES data for VEHSS includes questions and examinations related to Visual Function, Vision Exam Measures, Eye Health Conditions, Service Utilization, and Examination Measures. Data were suppressed for cell sizes less than 30 persons, or where the relative standard error more than 30% of the mean. Data will be updated as it becomes available. Detailed information on VEHSS NHANES analyses can be found on the VEHSS NHANES webpage (link). Additional information about NHANES can be found on the NHANES website (https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nhanes/index.htm). The VEHSS NHANES dataset was last updated in June 2018.* [Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP) - National Inpatient Sample](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ntny-77fx) - 2001 forward.  The National (Nationwide) Inpatient Sample (NIS) is part of a family of databases and software tools developed for the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP). The NIS is the largest publicly available all-payer inpatient health care database in the United States, yielding national estimates of hospital inpatient stays. Unweighted, it contains data from more than 7 million hospital stays each year. Weighted, it estimates more than 35 million hospitalizations nationally. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data are organized by indicator, and they include CVDs (e.g., heart failure). The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs (SAMMEC) - Smoking-Attributable Mortality (SAM)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/4yyu-3s69) - 2005-2009. SAMMEC - Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs. Smoking-attributable mortality (SAM) is the number of deaths caused by cigarette smoking based on diseases for which the U.S. Surgeon General has determined that cigarette smoking is a causal factor.* [Behavioral Risk Factor Data: Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xuxn-8kju) - 1993 - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Data are from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). All respondents to the BRFSS are non-institutionalized adults, 18 years old or older. HRQOL surveillance is used to identify unmet population health needs including recognizing trends, disparities, and determinants of health in the population. HRQOL surveillance data can be used to inform decision making, and program and policy development. To assure that the population is benefiting from public health programs, HRQOL surveillance data can be used for program evaluation. A compact set of HRQOL measures including a summary measure of unhealthy days have been developed and validated for population health surveillance and have been widely used since 1993.* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2010](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/xvu4-xjdb) - 2010. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments. PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Graph of Healthy People 2020 Tobacco Use Objective TU-8: Increase comprehensive Medicaid insurance coverage of evidence-based treatment for nicotine dependency in States and the District of Columbia](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/4x8v-r7qy) - 2008-2016. American Lung Association. Cessation Coverage. Medicaid data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health were obtained from the State Tobacco Cessation Coverage Database, developed and administered by the American Lung Association. Data are reported on an annual basis. Cessation Coverage - Medicaid Coverage Of Cessation Treatments And Barriers To Treatments. Healthy People 2020 TU-8: Increase comprehensive Medicaid insurance coverage of evidence-based treatment for nicotine dependency in States and the District of Columbia. Baseline year is 2008. Latest data point is 2014. Target is 51 (50 States and the District of Columbia).* [Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs (SAMMEC) - Smoking-Attributable Mortality (SAM) Glossary and Methodology](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/w47j-r23n) - Download the latest version of the Glossary and Methodology File* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators: Diabetes](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/f8ti-h92k) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [Behavioral Risk Factors - Vision & Eye Health](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/pttf-ck53) - 2005-2016.  In 2013 and subsequently, one question in the core of BRFSS asks about vision: Are you blind or do you have serious difficulty seeing, even when wearing glasses?  From 2005-2011 the BRFSS employed a ten question vision module regarding vision impairment, access and utilization of eye care, and self-reported eye diseases.  The Vision and Eye Health Surveillance System is intended   to provide population estimates of vision loss function, eye diseases, health disparities, as well as barriers and facilitators to access to vision and eye care.  This information can be used for designing, implementing, and evaluating vision and eye health prevention programs.* [Medicaid Coverage Of Cessation Treatments And Barriers To Treatments](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ntaa-dtex) - 2008-2018. American Lung Association. Cessation Coverage.  Medicaid data compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health were obtained from the State Tobacco Cessation Coverage Database, developed and administered by the American Lung Association.  Data from 2008-2012 are reported on an annual basis; beginning in 2013 data are reported on a quarterly basis.  Data include state-level information on Medicaid coverage of approved medications by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for tobacco cessation treatment; types of counseling recommended by the Public Health Service (PHS) and barriers to accessing cessation treatment. Note: Section 2502 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act requires all state Medicaid programs to cover all FDA-approved tobacco cessation medications as of January 1, 2014. However, states are currently in the process of modifying their coverage to come into compliance with this requirement. Data in the STATE System on Medicaid coverage of tobacco cessation medications reflect evidence of coverage that is found in documentable sources, and may not yet reflect medications covered under this requirement.* [Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs (SAMMEC) - Smoking-Attributable Expenditures (SAE)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ezab-8sq5) - 2005-2009. SAMMEC - Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs. Smoking-attributable expenditures (SAEs) are excess health care expenditures attributable to cigarette smoking, by type of service, among adults ages 19 years of age and older.* [National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) - National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance Data](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/kztq-p2jf) - 2000 forward.  NVSS is a secure, web-based data management system that collects and disseminates the Nation's official vital statistics. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP).   This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data are organized by location (national and state) and indicator; NVSS mortality data include CVDs (e.g., heart failure). The data can be viewed by temporal trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [500 Cities: Census Tract-level Data (GIS Friendly Format), 2016 release](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/5mtz-k78d) - 2013, 2014. Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. 500 cities project census tract-level data in GIS-friendly format can be joined with census tract spatial data in a geographic information system (GIS) to produce maps of 27 measures at the census tract level.* [National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) - National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance Data](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/fwns-azgu) - 2001 forward. The National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) has monitored the health of the nation since 1957. NHIS data on a broad range of health topics are collected through personal household interviews.  Indicators for this dataset has been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP).  This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data are organized by location (region) and indicator, and they include CVDs (e.g., heart failure) and risk factors (e.g., hypertension). The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [Behavioral Risk Factor Data: Heart Disease & Stroke Prevention](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/4ny5-qn3w) - 2011 to present.  BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death.  Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data are organized by location (national, regional, state, and selected sites) and indicator, and they include CVDs (e.g., heart failure) and risk factors (e.g., hypertension). The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity - American Community Survey](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/8mrp-rmkw) - This dataset includes select data from the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey (ACS) on the percent of adults who bike or walk to work. This data is used for DNPAO's Data, Trends, and Maps database, which provides national and state specific data on obesity, nutrition, physical activity, and breastfeeding. For more information about ACS visit https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/.* [CDC Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity - Legislation](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/nxst-x9p4) - This dataset contains policy data for 50 US states and DC from 2001 to 2017. Data include information related to state legislation and regulations on nutrition, physical activity, and obesity in settings such as early care and education centers, restaurants, schools, work places, and others. To identify individual bills, use the identifier ProvisionID.  A bill or citation may appear more than once because it could apply to multiple health or policy topics, settings, or states. As of Q 2 2016, data include only enacted legislation.* [U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators (CDI)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/g4ie-h725) - CDC's Division of Population Health provides cross-cutting set of 124 indicators that were developed by consensus and that allows states and territories and large metropolitan areas to uniformly define, collect, and report chronic disease data that are important to public health practice and available for states, territories and large metropolitan areas. In addition to providing access to state-specific indicator data, the CDI web site serves as a gateway to additional information and data resources.* [National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/5svk-8bnq) - 1999-2000 forward.  The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) is a program of studies designed to assess the health and nutritional status of adults and children in the United States. The survey is unique in that it combines interviews and physical examinations. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP). This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by age group, sex, and race/ethnicity.* [Behavioral Risk Factors: Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) County Prevalence Data (2011 to 2012)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/cpem-dkkm) - 2011 to 2012. BRFSS SMART County Prevalence combined land line and cell phone data.  The Selected Metropolitan Area Risk Trends (SMART) project uses the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) to analyze the data of selected counties with 500 or more respondents. BRFSS data can be used to identify emerging health problems, establish and track health objectives, and develop and evaluate public health policies and programs. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Behavioral-Risk-Factors/Behavioral-Risk-Factor-Surveillance-System-BRFSS-H/iuq5-y9ct* [Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) Prevalence Data (2011 to present)](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/dttw-5yxu) - 2011 to present. BRFSS combined land line and cell phone prevalence data. BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death. Data will be updated annually as it becomes available. Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss). Methodology: http://www.cdc.gov/brfss/factsheets/pdf/DBS_BRFSS_survey.pdf Glossary: http://apps.nccd.cdc.gov/BRFSSQuest/index.asp* [CDC PRAMStat Data for 2011](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/ese6-rqpq) - 2011.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  PRAMS, the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System, is a surveillance system collecting state-specific, population-based data on maternal attitudes and experiences before, during, and shortly after pregnancy. It is a collaborative project of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health departments.  PRAMS provides data for state health officials to use to improve the health of mothers and infants. PRAMS topics include abuse, alcohol use, contraception, breastfeeding, mental health, morbidity, obesity, preconception health, pregnancy history, prenatal-care, sleep behavior, smoke exposure, stress, tobacco use, WIC, Medicaid, infant health, and unintended pregnancy.
Data will be updated annually as it becomes available.* [Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) Historical Questions](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/iuq5-y9ct) - 1984-2016.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). BRFSS Survey Data.  The BRFSS is a continuous, state-based surveillance system that collects information about modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases and other leading causes of death.
Detailed information on sampling methodology and quality assurance can be found on the BRFSS website (http://www.cdc.gov/brfss).* [Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) , Medicare Claims data](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/iw6q-r3ja) - 2003 forward.  CMS compiles claims data for Medicare and Medicaid patients across a variety of categories and years. This includes Inpatient and Outpatient claims, Master Beneficiary Summary Files, and many other files. Indicators from this data source have been computed by personnel in CDC's Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention (DHDSP).  This is one of the datasets provided by the National Cardiovascular Disease Surveillance System. The system is designed to integrate multiple indicators from many data sources to provide a comprehensive picture of the public health burden of CVDs and associated risk factors in the United States. The data are organized by location (national and state) and indicator. The data can be plotted as trends and stratified by sex and race/ethnicity.* [500 Cities: Local Data for Better Health, 2017 release](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/d/6vp6-wxuq) - This is the complete dataset for the 500 Cities project 2017 release. This dataset includes 2015, 2014 model-based small area estimates for 27 measures of chronic disease related to unhealthy behaviors (5), health outcomes (13), and use of preventive services (9). Data were provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Population Health, Epidemiology and Surveillance Branch. The project was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) in conjunction with the CDC Foundation. It represents a first-of-its kind effort to release information on a large scale for cities and for small areas within those cities. It includes estimates for the 500 largest US cities and approximately 28,000 census tracts within these cities. These estimates can be used to identify emerging health problems and to inform development and implementation of effective, targeted public health prevention activities. Because the small area model cannot detect effects due to local interventions, users are cautioned against using these estimates for program or policy evaluations. Data sources used to generate these measures include Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data (2015, 2014), Census Bureau 2010 census population data, and American Community Survey (ACS) 2011-2015, 2010-2014 estimates. Because some questions are only asked every other year in the BRFSS, there are 7 measures from the 2014 BRFSS that are the same in the 2017 release as the previous 2016 release. More information about the methodology can be found at www.cdc.gov/500cities.