# corstat.coronaca.gov health datasets
* [CorStat - Fire Calls Received by Station (EMS)](https://corstat.coronaca.gov/d/ywbg-nsm2) - * [CorStat - Fire Calls Received & Responded To (EMS)](https://corstat.coronaca.gov/d/t6sb-agdd) - * [CorStat - Fire Yearly Statistics (EMS)](https://corstat.coronaca.gov/d/c8f4-zm75) - * [CorStat - Incident Summary by Station (EMS)](https://corstat.coronaca.gov/d/scge-35fv) - Incident summary of the City of Corona's Fire Department emergency medial services (EMS) response time by station. Data is pulled directly from the Fire Department record management system. This system is updated by dispatch and file personnel in the field. <br>
<b>Update Frequency:</b> Monthly 
**The City of Corona is currently working to automate this dataset.**<br>
<b>Data Disclaimer:</b> The City Of Corona (“Corona”) provides data available on this website as a service to the public. The data provided by Corona is based on historical data, information directly provided by Corona, information directly provided by Corona contractors and in some cases, information acquired during physical inspections. Corona does not guarantee the accuracy of this data and assumes no liability for any errors. The data shall be used for the sole purpose of providing the public with information regarding this program and not for any commercial, legal or other use. Corona assumes no liability for any decisions made or action taken or not taken by anyone using data provided from this website. Corona reserves the right to alter, amend or terminate at any time the display of this data.* [CorStat - Social Media Summary](https://corstat.coronaca.gov/d/a9vu-ftfm) - Summary of the social media accounts utilized by the City of Corona. Data is provided by Sprout Social, a social media monitoring tool. <br>
<b>Update Frequency:</b> Monthly<br>
<b>Data Disclaimer:</b> The City Of Corona (“Corona”) provides data available on this website as a service to the public. The data provided by Corona is based on historical data, information directly provided by Corona, information directly provided by Corona contractors and in some cases, information acquired during physical inspections. Corona does not guarantee the accuracy of this data and assumes no liability for any errors. The data shall be used for the sole purpose of providing the public with information regarding this program and not for any commercial, legal or other use. Corona assumes no liability for any decisions made or action taken or not taken by anyone using data provided from this website. Corona reserves the right to alter, amend or terminate at any time the display of this data.* [CorStat - EMS Incidents (90-day Average)](https://corstat.coronaca.gov/d/bn6x-afg6) - Summary of the response times achieved by the EMS division of the Corona Fire Department over a period of 90 days. Data is pulled directly from the Fire Department record management system. This system is updated real-time by dispatch and file personnel in the field.<br>
<b>Update Frequency:</b> Daily <br>
<b>Data Disclaimer:</b> The City Of Corona (“Corona”) provides data available on this website as a service to the public. The data provided by Corona is based on historical data, information directly provided by Corona, information directly provided by Corona contractors and in some cases, information acquired during physical inspections. Corona does not guarantee the accuracy of this data and assumes no liability for any errors. The data shall be used for the sole purpose of providing the public with information regarding this program and not for any commercial, legal or other use. Corona assumes no liability for any decisions made or action taken or not taken by anyone using data provided from this website. Corona reserves the right to alter, amend or terminate at any time the display of this data.* [CorStat - Fire Response Time Detail (EMS)](https://corstat.coronaca.gov/d/wfag-j3je) - Detailed summary of the City of Corona's Fire Department - EMS response times. Data is pulled directly from the Fire Department record management system.  This system is updated real-time by dispatch and file personnel in the field.<br>
<b>Update Frequency:</b> Daily <br>
<b>Data Disclaimer:</b> The City Of Corona (“Corona”) provides data available on this website as a service to the public. The data provided by Corona is based on historical data, information directly provided by Corona, information directly provided by Corona contractors and in some cases, information acquired during physical inspections. Corona does not guarantee the accuracy of this data and assumes no liability for any errors. The data shall be used for the sole purpose of providing the public with information regarding this program and not for any commercial, legal or other use. Corona assumes no liability for any decisions made or action taken or not taken by anyone using data provided from this website. Corona reserves the right to alter, amend or terminate at any time the display of this data.