# dashboard.edmonton.ca health datasets
* [Fire Rescue Events - Chart View](https://dashboard.edmonton.ca/d/ncxt-qfrk) - Fire Rescue Events measures the total number of fire rescue events Fire Rescue Services responds to in a year, shown as the rate per 1,000 population. Fire rescue
events include fire events, medical events and other public hazards, such as alarms, bombs, explosions and dangerous goods events. The measure is calculated based on the number of calls for which a response is dispatched. The data is collected through Collated Automated Dispatch as 911 calls come in to Fire Rescue Services. As the City has limited control over these events, Fire Rescue Events is considered an indicator.
* [TWWG Pesticide Alternatives](https://dashboard.edmonton.ca/d/mkf3-6amx) - Pesticide Alternatives refers to the proportion of City-owned and managed turf areas where alternative integrated pest management measures such as mowing, digging and hand-pulling were utilized to control weeds.
* [TWWG Green Building ( Ener Guide)](https://dashboard.edmonton.ca/d/f3cc-k4z3) - There are a number of green building rating systems currently being used in Edmonton including LEED, BuildGreen Canada and EnerGuide. These systems are indicators of a shift to a greener building stock. This is the yearly number of EnerGuide labelled homes
* [EPS Curb The Danger Statistics](https://dashboard.edmonton.ca/d/uc4g-r43u) - This dataset provides statistics from EPS's Curb the Danger program. EPS's Curb the Danger program has been available since 2006, where the public can call 911 when they spot someone they suspect is driving impaired, and if possible report the last direction of travel of the suspect vehicle, make of vehicle, and a license plate. Curb The Danger Calls are the number of 9-1-1 calls made by the public to EPS to report an impaired driver. EPS Intercepts from CTD are the number of occurrences where EPS made contact with the vehicle that was reported in from Curb The Danger. Impaired Arrests from CTD the number of impaired driving arrests arising from Intercepts from CTD where the driver has a Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC) of 0.08 or more, or there is other evidence to suggest a driver is impaired by alcohol, driving while impaired from narcotics or prescription drugs, or when testing for alcohol or drugs is refused. Roadside Suspensions from CTD are the number of roadside suspensions that arised from EPS vehicle intercepts from Curb The Danger. The figures here do not count the roadside suspensions that occur as part of an impaired driving arrest. The type of Roadside suspensions in this measure arise from: 1. AZAT (Alberta Zero Alcohol Tolerance Program) – Issued to GDL drivers with a BAC above zero. 30 day suspension, 7 day vehicle seizure. 2. IRS (Immediate Roadside Sanction) – BAC of .05 to .08 - 72 Hr suspension, 3 day vehicle seizure, with longer durations for subsequent offences. 3. 24 Hr Suspension – No reasonable Suspicion or Grounds to proceed in a formal Impaired Investigation, but a 24 hr suspension is given on the grounds of public safety. CTD Letters Sent to Registered Owners are the number of letters EPS sent to registered owners identified from a Curb The Danger call.
* [Fire Rescue Events](https://dashboard.edmonton.ca/d/ybev-856b) - Fire Rescue Events measures the total number of fire rescue events Fire Rescue Services responds to in a year, shown as the rate per 1,000 population. Fire rescue
events include fire events, medical events and other public hazards, such as alarms, bombs, explosions and dangerous goods events. The measure is calculated based on the number of calls for which a response is dispatched. The data is collected through Collated Automated Dispatch as 911 calls come in to Fire Rescue Services. As the City has limited control over these events, Fire Rescue Events is considered an indicator.
* [EPS Impaired Driving Incidents](https://dashboard.edmonton.ca/d/6wgz-mm4u) - Impaired Driving measures the number of EPS-reported incidents of impaired driving. The number here uses the number of victims when the incident involves victims. Impaired driving is a leading cause of criminal death in Canada, as well as a significant factor for traffic collision, injuries, and fatalities. A driver will face a criminal charge of impaired driving when they exceed a Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC) of 0.08, or when there is other evidence that a driver is impaired. The number of incidents here also includes impairment by narcotics or prescription medication, or when cooperation with testing for alcohol or drugs is refused. The following UCR2 codes are used for this crime statistic: 9210	Impaired operation - causing death 9215	Impaired operation (drugs) - causing death 9220	Impaired operation - causing bodily harm 9225	Impaired operation (drugs) - causing bodily harm 9230	Impaired operation of motor vehicle, vessel or aircraft 9235	Impaired operation (drugs) vehicle, vessel, aircraft 9240	Impaired operation - failure to provide breath sample 9245	Failure to comply or refusal (drugs) 9250	Impaired operation - failure to provide blood sample
* [TWWG Water Per Person](https://dashboard.edmonton.ca/d/5pvx-4u2s) - Domestic water use in Edmonton, on a per person basis, has historically been lower than the Canadian average due to a city-wide metering program, public education, rate setting methods and relatively short summers.
* [Water Consumption](https://dashboard.edmonton.ca/d/8qad-pbtd) - 
* [EPS Social Disorder Occurrences](https://dashboard.edmonton.ca/d/e3w9-5nws) - This dataset measures the number of EPS-reported Social Disorder Occurrences. Social disorder is composed of the following police events. ◦Weapons Complaint ◦Trouble with Person ◦Prostitution ◦Noise Complaint ◦Mischief ◦Mental Health Act Complaints ◦Disturbance ◦Arson ◦Abandoned Vehicle
