# data.baltimorecity.gov health datasets
* [Housing and Community Development (2010-2012) - KMZ](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/d7pd-kmdw) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Workforce and Economic Development (2010-2012) - KMZ](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/9sax-si6k) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [N.H](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/ay3g-iace) - This data set shows the point location of nursing homes within the City of Baltimore. These data were geocoded from a list provided by the Maryland State Office of Health Care Quality. The list was provided to EGIS via CARE on the 6th of March, 2008.
* [Crime & Safety (2010-2012)  - KMZ](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/7g6t-cgv2) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Victim Based Crime Data: Dunbar-Broadway](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/wvx9-87d5) - All BPD data on Open Baltimore is preliminary data and subject to change. The information presented through Open Baltimore represents Part I victim based crime data. The data do not represent statistics submitted to the FBI's Uniform Crime Report (UCR); therefore any comparisons are strictly prohibited. For further clarification of UCR data, please visit http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/ucr. Please note that this data is preliminary and subject to change. Prior month data is likely to show changes when it is refreshed on a monthly basis. All data is geocoded to the approximate latitude/longitude location of the incident and excludes those records for which an address could not be geocoded. Any attempt to match the approximate location of the incident to an exact address is strictly prohibited.
* [Arts and Culture (2010-2013)](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/s9kh-t3xq) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Workforce and Economic Development (2010-2012) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/52rz-wgjn) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Education and Youth (2010-2012) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/ijuu-iee9) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Housing and Community Development (2010-2013) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/quf7-tvzj) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Housing and Community Development (2010-2012) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/rxmt-tieg) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Arts and Culture (2010-2013) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/gdse-gybh) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Workforce and Economic Development (2010-2013) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/s4yg-vpih) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Crime & Safety (2010-2014) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/bywi-mtiu) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Children and Family Health & Well-Being - 2010](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/34ex-2mjc) - Baltimore City continues to make improving the health and lives of its residents a priority. In 2011, the City released the update of Community Health Profilesfor all CSAs as well as Healthy Baltimore 2015 Safe Homes and Families, acomprehensive health policy agenda and measures for tracking progress. In order to describe the health and well being of City residents, BNIA-JFI currently tracks thirteen adult, juvenile, and infant health indicators for Baltimore City and its neighborhoods. The data is provided by the Maryland Department of Health andMental Hygiene, Maryland Department of the Environment, Baltimore Substance Abuse Systems (BSAS), the Baltimore City Health Department, and the United States Bureau of the Census. Where possible, data is presented at the CSA and City level. For several indicators, data is only available at the zip code level.
* [Children and Family Health & Well-Being (2010-2012) - KMZ](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/efh8-n3mb) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Arts and Culture (2010-2012) -  Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/eqz4-iyw9) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Education and Youth (2010-2012) - KMZ](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/bw56-mfb8) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Census Demographics 2010-2012 - KMZ](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/6m47-at6y) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Arts and Culture (2010-2012) - KMZ](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/nuyq-8gqp) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Adult Day Care - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/5s4g-fv25) - This data set provides the location of adult day care facilities within the City of Baltimore. The list of facilities is from the Maryland Office of Health Care and Quality (OHCQ). EGIS gets the data indirectly from the Baltimore City Commission on Aging and Retirement Education (CARE).
* [S Broadway](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/qhwt-kvsz) - Emergency and Non-Emergency calls to 911
* [Census Demographics (2010-2013) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/nyt9-6358) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Children and Family Health & Well-Being (2010-2012) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/6btb-a7mu) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Children and Family Health & Well-Being (2010-2013) - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/3jsq-djk7) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Children and Family Health & Well-Being (2010-2014)](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/rtbq-mnni) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Children and Family Health & Well-Being (2010-2013)](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/ku4b-9db9) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Arts and Culture (2010-2012)](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/yh77-b85k) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Children and Family Health & Well-Being - 2010 Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/873b-4xqf) - Baltimore City continues to make improving the health and lives of its residents a priority. In 2011, the City released the update of Community Health Profiles for all CSAs as well as Healthy Baltimore 2015 Safe Homes and Families, a comprehensive health policy agenda and measures for tracking progress. In order to describe the health and well being of City residents, BNIA-JFI currently tracks thirteen adult, juvenile, and infant health indicators for Baltimore City and its neighborhoods. The data is provided by the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Maryland Department of the Environment, Baltimore Substance Abuse Systems (BSAS), the Baltimore City Health Department, and the United States Bureau of the Census. Where possible, data is presented at the CSA and City level. For several indicators, data is only available at the zip code level.
* [Nursing Homes](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/53js-3bkd) - This data set shows the point location of nursing homes within the City of Baltimore. These data were geocoded from a list provided by the Maryland State Office of Health Care Quality. The list was provided to EGIS via CARE on the 6th of March, 2008.
* [1634 BROADWAY](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/hkm6-wt5s) - The Environmental Control Board is a regulatory agency with an administrative court charged with the responsibility of adjudicating civil citations in accordance with Article 1, Section 40 of the Baltimore City Code.
* [Census Demographics 2010-2012 - Shape](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/yjbq-agie) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Adult Day Care Facilities](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/yc75-xbrv) - This data set provides the location of adult day care facilities within the City of Baltimore. The list of facilities is from the Maryland Office of Health Care and Quality (OHCQ). EGIS gets the data indirectly from the Baltimore City Commission on Aging and Retirement Education (CARE).
* [Workforce and Economic Development (2010-2013)](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/8hgm-7t56) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
* [Census Demographics (2010-2013)](https://data.baltimorecity.gov/d/7pnq-8ebe) - Most indicators throughout Vital Signs are created by acquiring and analyzing data collected from governmental agencies for some public administration purpose, such as 311 calls or housing inspections. However, data from the United States Bureau of the Census remains the best source for demographic and socioeconomic indicators for neighborhoods. The Census Bureau collects a wide variety of information through administration of both the decennial Census and the annual American Community Survey (ACS).
