# data.novascotia.ca health datasets
* [Parenting Journey, Youth Outreach, A Place to Belong and Men's Intervention Programs](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/kapu-he2d) - Parenting Journey is a home visitation program that provides support for families experiencing complex social, emotional and familial challenges that may impact overall family functioning, parent-child relationships and the well-being and development of children/youth ages 0 to 18 plus. The Parenting Journey Program is intended to serve families with the fewest resources, facing multiple challenges, and experiencing barriers to accessing supports. The Youth Outreach program is a community-based program designed to improve the immediate and long-term social, educational/vocational, economic and health outcomes for vulnerable youth. Priority will be given to youth between the ages of 16 and 18 who are facing multiple challenges with limited supports. A Place to Belong (APTB) programs provides children and youth aged 5 to 18 with a positive after school experience that promotes their personal, social, and emotional development. These programs provide an adult-supervised environment where they can experience new opportunities, overcome barriers, build positive relationships, and develop confidence and skills for life. Men’s Intervention Programs (MIPs) provide holistic intervention and prevention services and supports for men who are or have been abusive in their intimate relationships. These services and supports are provided within the larger continuum of services for families affected by intimate partner violence. Intimate partner violence may include physical, sexual, verbal, emotional, psychological, social, and financial violence and abuse.
* [Canadian Community Health Survey 2005](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/5tws-niqq) - This table reports health indicators. Health status, body mass index, mental health status, presence of health conditions, health practices, access to health care, belonging to community, activity restrictions, access to home care. Geographies available: district health authorities
* [Atlantic Quarterly Autumn 2017 - DHW (flu shots)](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/dcj6-kjxr) - The data set represents the results of commissioned questions in the public opinion survey conducted in November 2017 via Atlantic Quarterly, Corporate Research Associate’s omnibus survey. These commissioned questions relate to public opinion, attitude and behaviour regarding the annual flu shot (intent to get a flu shot, where and rational for location, reasons for not receiving flu shot). Overall results are provided for each question and results are also broken down by various demographic markers (age, gender, geographic region, education level and household income).
* [Long Term Care and Residential Care Facilities](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/s7ui-kx6d) - The locations of all Long Term Care and Residential Care facilties in Nova Scotia by their civic address.
* [Potential for Radon in Indoor Air in Nova Scotia](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/tk49-rtq2) - Radon (Rn) is a naturally occurring, colourless and odourless gas that is radioactive and known to cause lung cancer. In fact, Rn is the second leading cause of lung cancer after smoking and the leading cause of the disease among nonsmokers (World Health Organization, 2009). Radon is generated naturally from the radioactive decay of uranium. Both elements are found in varying amounts in all the soils and rocks throughout the province (Goodwin et al., 2009, 2010a). A GIS-based (Geographic Information System) approach was used to produce this dataset and open File map 2013-028. Using a GIS model to produce a dataset of this sort requires coverage of the study area in digital information layers of bedrock geology, surficial/soil geology and airborne gammaray spectrometry for eU (equivalent uranium). Coverage of the study area by indoor Rn measurement surveys is also necessary in order to test the validity of the GIS model and to determine exceedence probability percentages. Nova Scotia, more so than any other Canadian province or territory, benefits by having total provincial coverage in all these digital data layers and is, thus, a prime candidate for createing this derived digital product. The derivation and running of the GIS model are explained in more detail in O'Reilly et al. (2010). Basically, the GIS model brings together the three digital information layers and integrates the characteristics of each that pertain to its potential for the generation of Rn and for allowing the gas to migrate and accumulate within homes. The airborne gamma-ray spectrometric layer provides an estimate of the U concentration (U is the original source of the Rn) of the surface soils and rocks. The bedrock geology layer shows the distribution of each rock unit throughout the province and provides an estimate of each unit's potential to produce Rn. The surficial geology layer provides an estimate of the permeability of the surface material, a factor deemed very important in allowing Rn to travel through the soil to reach a building's foundation. These three data layers are factored against each other in the running of the GIS model and collectively produce a new layer depicting Rn potential score (Rn Score). In our model the three data layers were given an equal weighting. Within each data layer, the potential for each unit constituting that layer to produce Rn was subjectively scored from 1 to 100. As such, following the running of the GIS model, a maximum cumulative Rn score of 300 is possible for any particular area. The GIS model produced a range of cumulative Rn scores from a minimum of 25 to a maximum of 275. It should be noted that areas of water cover produce a Rn score of zero, but since there are no homes or dwellings in water, these areas were ignored. The Nova Scotia Department of Health and Wellness recommends that all homeowners in the province test their homes for Rn. Many Rn studies carried out globally have shown conclusively that, although the percentage of homes exceeding established Rn guidelines can vary from area to area, there are no areas completely devoid of homes with high Rn. No matter where you live, the only way you will know for sure whether or not your home has high Rn is to complete a proper Rn test (Health Canada, 2008). Since there are regions where there are a higher percentage of Rn guideline exceedences, a dataset such as this showing the distribution of these regions is useful in determining priority areas for testing and for assisting with building code guidelines.
* [Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Crude Prevalence](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/ua9e-4pss) - Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) crude prevalence in Nova Scotia. Includes the following data fields: Management Zone, Sex, Age Group, Population, Chronic disease 2 Count, Crude Prevalence Rate %
* [Home Support Waitlist Q1 2014-15 to Q3 2017-18](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/jwb6-ztxi) - Number of individuals waiting for full or partial Home Support services - Weekly
* [Canadian Community Health Survey 2001-2010](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/eytb-9sg2) - This table reports health indicators. Health status, body mass index, mental health status, presence of health conditions, health practices, access to health care, belonging to community, activity restrictions, access to home care. Geographies available: provinces, district health authorities, community health boards
* [Canadian Community Health Survey 2007](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/trdn-2v6g) - This table reports health indicators. Health status, body mass index, mental health status, presence of health conditions, health practices, access to health care, belonging to community, activity restrictions, access to home care. Geographies available: district health authorities
* [Long Term Care and Residential Care Facilities](https://data.novascotia.ca/d/x76a-axw2) - The locations of all Long Term Care and Residential Care facilties in Nova Scotia by their civic address.
