# data.wa.gov health datasets
* [WA Soils](https://data.wa.gov/d/e76j-28nj) - Information for SOILS data layer was derived from the Private Forest Land Grading system (PFLG) and subsequent soil surveys. PFLG was a five-year mapping program completed in 1980 for the purpose of forestland taxation. It was funded by the Washington State Department of Revenue. The Department of Natural Resources, Soil Conservation Service (now known as the Natural Resources Conservation Service or NRCS), USDA Forest Service and Washington State University conducted soil mapping cooperatively following national soil survey standards. Private lands having the potential of supporting commercial forests were surveyed along with interspersed small areas of State lands, Indian tribal lands, and federal lands. Because this was a cooperative soil survey project, agricultural and non-commercial forestlands were included within some survey areas. After the Department of Natural Resources originally developed its geographic information system, digitized soil map unit delineations and a few soil attributes were transferred to the system. Remaining PFLG soil attributes were later added and are now available through associated lookup tables. SCS (NRCS) soils data on agricultural lands also have been subsequently added to this data layer. The SOILS data layer includes approximately 1,100 townships with wholly or partially digitized soils data. State and private lands which have the potential of supporting commercial forest stands were surveyed. Some Indian tribal and federal lands were surveyed. Because this was a cooperative soils survey project, agricultural and non-commercial forestlands were also included within some survey areas. After the Department of Natural Resources originally developed its geographic information system, digitized soils delineations and a few soil attributes were transferred to the system. Remaining PFLG soil attributes were added at a later time and are now available through associated lookup tables. SCS soils data on agricultural lands also have subsequently been added to this data layer. This layer includes approximately 1, 100 townships with wholly or partially digitized soils data (2,101 townships would provide complete coverage of the state of Washington).- The soils_sv resolves one to many relationships and as such is one of those special &quot;DNR&quot; spatial views ( ie. is implemented similar to a feature class). Column names may not match between SOILS_SV and the originating datasets.
Use limitations This Spatial View is available to Washingotn DNR users and those with access to the Washington State Uplands IMS site. The following cautions only apply to one-to-many and many-to-many spatial views!
Use these in the metadata only if the SV is one-to-many or many-to-many. CAUTIONS:
Area and Length Calculations: Use care when summarizing or totaling area or length calculations from spatial views with one-to-many or many-to-many relationships. One-to-many or many-to-many relationships between tabular and spatial data create multiple features in the same geometry. In other words, if there are two or more records in the table that correspond to the same feature (a single polygon, line or point), the spatial view will contain an identical copy of that feature's geometry for every corresponding record in the table. Area and length calculations should be performed carefully, to ensure they are not being exaggerated by including copies of the same feature's geometry. Symbolizing Spatial Features: Use care when symbolizing data in one-to-many or many-to-many spatial views. If there are multiple attributes tied to the same feature, symbolizing with a solid fill may mask other important features within the spatial view. This can be most commonly seen when symbolizing features based on a field with multiple table records. Labeling Spatial Features:
Spatial views with one-to-many or many-to-many relationships may present duplicate labels for those features with multiple table records. This is becau
* [Watershed Health Monitoring: Excess Sediment in Salmon/Trout Streams](https://data.wa.gov/d/63h7-zpny) - This file lists random sites sampled by the Department of Ecology's Watershed Health Monitoring program during 2009-2016. The list is limited to those sites known to be occupied by salmon or trout at some time during the year. It also shows percentage of the stream network represented by the site and whether the observed sediment on the surface of the stream bottom exceeded levels estimated to be optimum for sediment-sensitive salmonids.
* [DSHS Behavioral Health Organization Regions](https://data.wa.gov/d/89df-ua3a) - <div>DSHS and the state Health Care Authority (HCA) jointly designated Regional Service Areas (RSAs) in June 2015, following legislative authorization in 2014. RSAs define new geographical boundaries for the state to purchase behavioral and physical health care through managed care contracts. They are not administrative authorities. Behavioral Health Organizations (BHOs) are located within newly formed Regional Service Areas (RSAs). There is one BHO per RSA, except for the Southwest Washington RSA, which has a contract with the Health Care Authority for managed care plans. RSAs join and include contiguous counties, contain at least 60,000 people on Medicaid, possess an adequate number of health care providers, and reflect natural physical and behavioral health service referral patterns. More information on BHOs is available at this link (<a href="https://www.dshs.wa.gov/bha/division-behavioral-health-and-recovery/behavioral-health-organizations" target="_blank">https://www.dshs.wa.gov/bha/division-behavioral-health-and-recovery/behavioral-health-organizations</a>).</div><div><ul><li>Lifecycle status: Production<br /></li><li>Purpose: enable open access to DSHS data<br /></li><li>DSHS Data Security: Category 1 - Public<br /></li><li>Last Update: 7/7/2016<br /></li><li>Update Cycle: as needed<br /></li><li>Data Sources: DSHS<br /></li></ul></div><div><b>Important:</b> DSHS reserves the right to alter, suspend, re-host, or retire this service at any time and without notice. This is a map service that you can use in custom web applications and software products. Your use of this map service in these types of tools forms a dependency on the service definition (available fields, layers, etc.). If you form any dependency on this service, be aware of this significant risk to your purposes. You might consider mitigating your risk by extracting the source data and using it to host your own service in an environment under your control. Typically, DSHS Enterprise GIS staff will provide notification of changes via the &quot;Comments&quot; RSS capability in ArcGIS Online. You may subscribe to the RSS feed that publishes comments to monitor any planned and notified changes.</div>
* [Deprecated - Jurisdictions By Election Year](https://data.wa.gov/d/m6wv-f9g5) - This dataset contains all jurisdictions for which at least one candidate has registered with the PDC. Jurisdictions that do not have a campaign finance filing requirement are not displayed. For example, the office of the governor is displayed only for years where the office is up for election. The dataset covers the last 10 years. This dataset is a best-effort by the PDC to provide a complete set of records as described herewith and may contain incomplete or incorrect information. The PDC provides access to the original reports for the purpose of record verification. Descriptions attached to this dataset do not constitute legal definitions; please consult RCW 42.17A and WAC Title 390 for legal definitions and additional information regarding political finance disclosure requirements. CONDITION OF RELEASE: This publication and or referenced documents constitutes a list of individuals prepared by the Washington State Public Disclosure Commission and may not be used for commercial purposes. This list is provided on the condition and with the understanding that the persons receiving it agree to this statutorily imposed limitation on its use. See RCW 42.56.070(9) and AGO 1975 No. 15.
* [Watershed Health Monitoring: Wood Volume in Streams](https://data.wa.gov/d/q4is-ii4v) - This is a list of wood volume measurements among randomly selected stream sites in Washington State during 2009-2016. Data were collected for the Department of Ecology's Watershed Health Monitoring surveys. This list only displays data from the most recent sampling event at any site.
* [DAHP - Government Land Office maps (GLOs) Trails](https://data.wa.gov/d/aex8-qepz) - <p>Government Land Office maps (GLOs) are a result of the effort to survey all United States public lands before settlement. Starting in 1812 land was divided into square six mile blocks called townships, then subdivided into sections and ranges. Each subdivided area was surveyed and given its own map or GLO. During this process surveyors were required to indicate cultural resources such as roads and Indian trails and standardized symbols were used to represent geographic features. These GLOs are now maintained by the Bureau of Land Management as part of the official Land Status and Cadastral Survey records. As land was divided into parcels of individual ownership additional cadastral survey maps were created over time. For this reason there are often multiple GLOs or &quot;cadastral survey maps&quot; for one township / range, generally numbered one through four. For this seamless GLO layer, DAHP focused solely on the more historical GLOs which were usually listed as image number one or two for that specific township / range in the BLM Cadastral Survey records. In some cases no GLOs were available for review. Such areas included National Forest Lands, National Parks, Indian Reservations, and remote wilderness areas.<br /></p>
* [Candidate Surplus Funds Reports](https://data.wa.gov/d/9kcu-2bem) - This data set contains all the surplus funds C4s filed by a candidate. This dataset is a best-effort by the PDC to provide a complete set of records as described herewith and may contain incomplete or incorrect information. The PDC provides access to the original reports for the purpose of record verification. Descriptions attached to this dataset do not constitute legal definitions; please consult RCW 42.17A and WAC Title 390 for legal definitions and additional information regarding political finance disclosure requirements. CONDITION OF RELEASE: This publication and or referenced documents constitutes a list of individuals prepared by the Washington State Public Disclosure Commission and may not be used for commercial purposes. This list is provided on the condition and with the understanding that the persons receiving it agree to this statutorily imposed limitation on its use. See RCW 42.56.070(9) and AGO 1975 No. 15.
* [Surplus Funds Expenditures](https://data.wa.gov/d/ti55-mvy5) - This dataset contains expenditures made by from surplus funds accounts of Washington State Candidates for the last 10 years as reported to the PDC on forms C3, C4, Schedule C and their electronic filing equivalents. A surplus funds account uses the same value for the filer id field in the data set except the surplus account has a "*" in it. This can be used to correlate to the same candidate in other data sets. For surplus accounts, the number of years is determined by the year of the election, not necessarily the year the expenditure was reported. This dataset is a best-effort by the PDC to provide a complete set of records as described herewith and may contain incomplete or incorrect information. The PDC provides access to the original reports for the purpose of record verification. Descriptions attached to this dataset do not constitute legal definitions; please consult RCW 42.17A and WAC Title 390 for legal definitions and additional information regarding political finance disclosure requirements. CONDITION OF RELEASE: This publication constitutes a list of individuals prepared by the Washington State Public Disclosure Commission and may not be used for commercial purposes. This list is provided on the condition and with the understanding that the persons receiving it agree to this statutorily imposed limitation on its use. See RCW 42.56.070(9) and AGO 1975 No. 15.
* [State Senate costliest races](https://data.wa.gov/d/2m4y-kr5t) - This dataset contains cash and in-kind contributions made to Washington State Candidates and Political Committees for the last 10 years as reported to the PDC on forms C3, C4, Schedule C and their electronic filing equivalents. It does not include loans, pledges or any expenditures. For candidates, the number of years is determined by the year of the election, not necessarily the year the contribution was reported. For political committees, the number of years is determined by the calendar year of the reporting period. Candidates and political committees choosing to file under "mini reporting" are not included in this dataset. See WAC 390-16-105 for information regarding eligibility. This dataset is a best-effort by the PDC to provide a complete set of records as described herewith and may contain incomplete or incorrect information. The PDC provides access to the original reports for the purpose of record verification. Descriptions attached to this dataset do not constitute legal definitions; please consult RCW 42.17A and WAC Title 390 for legal definitions and additional information political finance disclosure requirements. CONDITION OF RELEASE: This publication constitutes a list of individuals prepared by the Washington State Public Disclosure Commission and may not be used for commercial purposes. This list is provided on the condition and with the understanding that the persons receiving it agree to this statutorily imposed limitation on its use. See RCW 42.56.070(9) and AGO 1975 No. 15.
* [Contributions by Filer for 2017 Election](https://data.wa.gov/d/9bjx-dbbs) - This dataset contains cash and in-kind contributions made to Washington State Candidates and Political Committees for the last 10 years as reported to the PDC on forms C3, C4, Schedule C and their electronic filing equivalents. It does not include loans, pledges or any expenditures. For candidates, the number of years is determined by the year of the election, not necessarily the year the contribution was reported. For political committees, the number of years is determined by the calendar year of the reporting period. Candidates and political committees choosing to file under "mini reporting" are not included in this dataset. See WAC 390-16-105 for information regarding eligibility. This dataset is a best-effort by the PDC to provide a complete set of records as described herewith and may contain incomplete or incorrect information. The PDC provides access to the original reports for the purpose of record verification. Descriptions attached to this dataset do not constitute legal definitions; please consult RCW 42.17A and WAC Title 390 for legal definitions and additional information political finance disclosure requirements. CONDITION OF RELEASE: This publication constitutes a list of individuals prepared by the Washington State Public Disclosure Commission and may not be used for commercial purposes. This list is provided on the condition and with the understanding that the persons receiving it agree to this statutorily imposed limitation on its use. See RCW 42.56.070(9) and AGO 1975 No. 15.
* [Hospital Inpatient Discharges by DRG, Northwest, FY2011](https://data.wa.gov/d/mu24-67ke) - This table shows the low, high, and average percents of discharges related to a referenced DRG (diagnosis-related group) as a share of the total discharges from the top 100 common DRGs for hospitals in the Northwest region (Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington). The source of data for this table is FY2011 hospital charges file provided by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).
* [Kindergarten Immunization Data, 2016-17](https://data.wa.gov/d/kck7-yb2v) - Kindergarten immunization coverage for school year 2016-2017 by school
* [All students, kindergarten through 12th grade, immunization data by school, 2016-2017](https://data.wa.gov/d/9zru-c2kz) - Washington student immunization rates by school for 2016-2017
* [Hospital Inpatient Discharges by DRG, U.S., FY2011](https://data.wa.gov/d/swuj-ccgu) - This table shows the low, high, and average percents of discharges related to a referenced DRG (diagnosis-related group) as a share of the total discharges from the top 100 common DRGs for hospitals in the United States. The source of data for this table is FY2011 hospital charges file provided by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).
* [Lobbyist Agents (DEPRECIATED)](https://data.wa.gov/d/xsk3-ppp5) - This dataset contains information about the agents employed by a lobbying firm. This dataset is a best-effort by the PDC to provide a complete set of records as described herewith and may contain incomplete or incorrect information. The PDC provides access to the original reports for the purpose of record verification. Descriptions attached to this dataset do not constitute legal definitions; please consult RCW 42.17A and WAC Title 390 for legal definitions and additional information regarding political finance disclosure requirements. CONDITION OF RELEASE: This publication and or referenced documents constitutes a list of individuals prepared by the Washington State Public Disclosure Commission and may not be used for commercial purposes. This list is provided on the condition and with the understanding that the persons receiving it agree to this statutorily imposed limitation on its use. See RCW 42.56.070(9) and AGO 1975 No. 15.
* [Pre-2016 Lobbyist Compensation and Expenses by Source](https://data.wa.gov/d/3v2j-kqbi) - This dataset only contains records for reporting years 2015 and prior. In 2016, the PDC implemented a new system for managing lobbyist reports and electronic filing. The layout of these records is incompatible with the 2016 and later record layout. Please refer to the "Lobbyist Compensation and Expenses by Source" dataset for 2016 and later records. This dataset contains compensation and expense summary records from the monthly reports of lobbying activity. One record is included for each client that paid compensation or incurred expenses during the filing period. If the lobbyist firm themselves incurred any expenses not reimbursed by a client, a record is included summarizing the lobbyist firm's expenses. If a lobbyist reported no compensation or expenses on the report, no records will be in this dataset. Records are included for the period from 10 years prior to the current date to the end of 2015. The date is determined as the filing period of the report, not the date received. Records are included for the full year so for example, all 2007 records will be included until the entire year 2007 falls outside the 10 year time span. This dataset is a best-effort by the PDC to provide a complete set of records as described herewith and may contain incomplete or incorrect information. The PDC provides access to the original reports for the purpose of record verification. Descriptions attached to this dataset do not constitute legal definitions; please consult RCW 42.17A and WAC Title 390 for legal definitions and additional information regarding political finance disclosure requirements. CONDITION OF RELEASE: This publication and or referenced documents constitutes a list of individuals prepared by the Washington State Public Disclosure Commission and may not be used for commercial purposes. This list is provided on the condition and with the understanding that the persons receiving it agree to this statutorily imposed limitation on its use. See RCW 42.56.070(9) and AGO 1975 No. 15.
* [Watershed Health Monitoring: Riparian Disturbance by Region and Survey](https://data.wa.gov/d/v4rj-vzug) - This dataset lists random sites sampled by Watershed Health Monitoring surveys during 2009 to 2016. It provides adjusted spatial weights (km of stream represented by the site). It also provides metric values for proximity-weighted presence of riparian disturbance from any type (PWP all) and the disturbance condition rating (low, medium, or high). Sites are assigned regional and survey year membership.
* [Number of People Affected By Drinking Water Advisories in 2013](https://data.wa.gov/d/ehhg-5cge) - The Public Health Activities and Services (PHAS) data measures what public health does in the state and how much of it is done across all 35 local health agencies and the Department of Health in Washington State each year. Activities measured fall under the following broad categories: Access To Care Assessment Communicable Disease Communicable Disease: Immunization Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health Healthy Families Prevention and Wellness More PHAS data is available at https://fortress.wa.gov/doh/phip/PHIP/Home.mvc
* [WA-APCD Quality and Cost Summary Report: Facility Cost](https://data.wa.gov/d/tw6a-23eg) - WA-APCD - Washington All Payers Claims Database The WA-APCD is the state’s most complete source of health care eligibility, medical claims, pharmacy claims, and dental claims insurance data. It contains claims from more than 50 data suppliers, spanning commercial, Medicaid, and Medicare managed care. The WA-APCD has historical claims data for five years (2013-2017), with ongoing refreshes scheduled quarterly. Workers' compensation data from the Washington Department of Labor & Industries will be added in fall 2018. Download the attachment for the data dictionary and more information about WA-APCD and the data.
* [Lobbyist Agent Employers](https://data.wa.gov/d/e7sd-jbuy) - This dataset contains information about the agents employed by a lobbying firm and the employers they ultimately lobby for. A lobbyist/firm registers with the PDC, not individual agents (employees) of that firm. The PDC provides this data as a way to see the individuals that lobby for a firm and all the employers of that firm. This does not indicate that a particular agent necessarily lobbied for a particular employer, merely that the agent's firm lobbied for that employer. This dataset is a best-effort by the PDC to provide a complete set of records as described herewith and may contain incomplete or incorrect information. The PDC provides access to the original reports for the purpose of record verification. Descriptions attached to this dataset do not constitute legal definitions; please consult RCW 42.17A and WAC Title 390 for legal definitions and additional information regarding political finance disclosure requirements. CONDITION OF RELEASE: This publication and or referenced documents constitutes a list of individuals prepared by the Washington State Public Disclosure Commission and may not be used for commercial purposes. This list is provided on the condition and with the understanding that the persons receiving it agree to this statutorily imposed limitation on its use. See RCW 42.56.070(9) and AGO 1975 No. 15.
* [Hospital Inpatient Discharge Rates, Average Charges, Average Payments, and Charge-to-Payment Ratios by DRG - U.S., Northwest, and Washington State - FY2011](https://data.wa.gov/d/xupn-4ych) - The dataset contains hospital inpatient discharge rates, charges, covered payments, charge-to-payment ratios for the 100 most common DRGs among hospitals in the Medicare Prospective Payment System.
* [AELview](https://data.wa.gov/d/vxd3-yfzv) - The Washington State Department of Health presents this information as a service to the public. True and correct copies of legal disciplinary actions taken after July 1998 are available on our Provider Credential Search site. These records are considered certified by the Department of Health. This includes information on health care providers. Please contact our Customer Service Center at 360-236-4700 for information about actions before July 1998. The information on this site comes directly from our database and is updated daily at 10:00 a.m.. This data is a primary source for verification of credentials and is extracted from the primary database at 2:00 a.m. daily. News releases about disciplinary actions taken against Washington State healthcare providers, agencies or facilities are on the agency's Newsroom webpage. Disclaimer The absence of information in the Provider Credential Search system doesn't imply any recommendation, endorsement or guarantee of competence of any healthcare professional. The presence of information in this system doesn't imply a provider isn't competent or qualified to practice. The reader is encouraged to carefully evaluate any information found in this data set.
* [Licensed Midwives](https://data.wa.gov/d/bagp-e2xt) - The Washington State Department of Health presents this information as a service to the public. True and correct copies of legal disciplinary actions taken after July 1998 are available on our Provider Credential Search site. These records are considered certified by the Department of Health. This includes information on health care providers. Please contact our Customer Service Center at 360-236-4700 for information about actions before July 1998. The information on this site comes directly from our database and is updated daily at 10:00 a.m.. This data is a primary source for verification of credentials and is extracted from the primary database at 2:00 a.m. daily. News releases about disciplinary actions taken against Washington State healthcare providers, agencies or facilities are on the agency's Newsroom webpage. Disclaimer The absence of information in the Provider Credential Search system doesn't imply any recommendation, endorsement or guarantee of competence of any healthcare professional. The presence of information in this system doesn't imply a provider isn't competent or qualified to practice. The reader is encouraged to carefully evaluate any information found in this data set.
* [licenses active](https://data.wa.gov/d/ynd2-ud55) - The Washington State Department of Health presents this information as a service to the public. True and correct copies of legal disciplinary actions taken after July 1998 are available on our Provider Credential Search site. These records are considered certified by the Department of Health. This includes information on health care providers. Please contact our Customer Service Center at 360-236-4700 for information about actions before July 1998. The information on this site comes directly from our database and is updated daily at 10:00 a.m.. This data is a primary source for verification of credentials and is extracted from the primary database at 2:00 a.m. daily. News releases about disciplinary actions taken against Washington State healthcare providers, agencies or facilities are on the agency's Newsroom webpage. Disclaimer The absence of information in the Provider Credential Search system doesn't imply any recommendation, endorsement or guarantee of competence of any healthcare professional. The presence of information in this system doesn't imply a provider isn't competent or qualified to practice. The reader is encouraged to carefully evaluate any information found in this data set.
* [License filter](https://data.wa.gov/d/q2gn-dkyk) - The Washington State Department of Health presents this information as a service to the public. True and correct copies of legal disciplinary actions taken after July 1998 are available on our Provider Credential Search site. These records are considered certified by the Department of Health. This includes information on health care providers. Please contact our Customer Service Center at 360-236-4700 for information about actions before July 1998. The information on this site comes directly from our database and is updated daily at 10:00 a.m.. This data is a primary source for verification of credentials and is extracted from the primary database at 2:00 a.m. daily. News releases about disciplinary actions taken against Washington State healthcare providers, agencies or facilities are on the agency's Newsroom webpage. Disclaimer The absence of information in the Provider Credential Search system doesn't imply any recommendation, endorsement or guarantee of competence of any healthcare professional. The presence of information in this system doesn't imply a provider isn't competent or qualified to practice. The reader is encouraged to carefully evaluate any information found in this data set.
* [Pharmacy Assistant](https://data.wa.gov/d/ewuk-q8pu) - The Washington State Department of Health presents this information as a service to the public. True and correct copies of legal disciplinary actions taken after July 1998 are available on our Provider Credential Search site. These records are considered certified by the Department of Health. This includes information on health care providers. Please contact our Customer Service Center at 360-236-4700 for information about actions before July 1998. The information on this site comes directly from our database and is updated daily at 10:00 a.m.. This data is a primary source for verification of credentials and is extracted from the primary database at 2:00 a.m. daily. News releases about disciplinary actions taken against Washington State healthcare providers, agencies or facilities are on the agency's Newsroom webpage. Disclaimer The absence of information in the Provider Credential Search system doesn't imply any recommendation, endorsement or guarantee of competence of any healthcare professional. The presence of information in this system doesn't imply a provider isn't competent or qualified to practice. The reader is encouraged to carefully evaluate any information found in this data set.
* [License](https://data.wa.gov/d/7sdm-u7qf) - The Washington State Department of Health presents this information as a service to the public. True and correct copies of legal disciplinary actions taken after July 1998 are available on our Provider Credential Search site. These records are considered certified by the Department of Health. This includes information on health care providers. Please contact our Customer Service Center at 360-236-4700 for information about actions before July 1998. The information on this site comes directly from our database and is updated daily at 10:00 a.m.. This data is a primary source for verification of credentials and is extracted from the primary database at 2:00 a.m. daily. News releases about disciplinary actions taken against Washington State healthcare providers, agencies or facilities are on the agency's Newsroom webpage. Disclaimer The absence of information in the Provider Credential Search system doesn't imply any recommendation, endorsement or guarantee of competence of any healthcare professional. The presence of information in this system doesn't imply a provider isn't competent or qualified to practice. The reader is encouraged to carefully evaluate any information found in this data set.
