# data.ct.gov health datasets
* [Care 4 Kids Average Families Served Per Month 2010](https://data.ct.gov/d/m3xd-9xcw) - Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services.* [Care 4 Kids Average Families Served Per Month 2010](https://data.ct.gov/d/m3xd-9xcw) - Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services.* [New Britain Medical Assist Calls 2014 - Based on Connecticut Fire Department Incidents (2012-2015)](https://data.ct.gov/d/fec9-yvdu) - This dataset contains Connecticut Fire Department Incidents as reported to the National Fire Department Incident Reporting System (NFIRS).<br /><br />NFIRS collects details on Fire, HazMat and EMS incidences nationwide, detailing the type of incident, where it occurred, the resources used to mitigate it and more, with a goal of understanding the nature and causes of the incidents. Information is also collected on the number of civilian or firefighter casualties and an estimate of property loss.<br /><br />Participation in NFIRS is voluntary.  <br /><br />Data is released yearly, with a considerable delay.<br /><br />Each Incidence is assigned a 3 digit Incidence Type Code.  The code describes the situation emergency personnel found when they arrived.  Incidence Types are grouped into larger categories, called Series.  <br /><br />For example, Series 400, 'Hazardous Condition' category includes incidence types: 411, 'Gasoline or other flammable liquid spill; 412, 'Gas leak and 413, 'Oil or other combustible liquid spill '.<br /><br />Not every Incidence Type is included in the data.   In 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, the NFIRS data releases contained these Series/Incidence Types:<br /><br />  Series 100: Fire Incidences,<br />  Series 400: Hazardous Condition (No Fire),<br />  Incidence Type 561: Unauthorized burning, under the 'Service Call' Series,<br />  Incidence Type 631: Authorized Controlled Burning, under the 'Good Intent Call' series and<br />  Incidence Type 632: Prescribed fires also under the 'Good Intent Call' series.<br /><br />The 2014 release included these additional series:<br /><br />  200: Overpressure Rupture, Explosion, Overheat (No Fire), <br />  300: Rescue and Emergency Medical Service (EMS) Incidents, <br />  500: Service Calls, <br />  600: Good Intent Call Series,<br />  700: False Alarm and False Call,<br />  800 Severe Weather and Natural Disaster<br />  900: Special Incident Type.<br /><br />The official NFIRS documentation has been attached to this dataset.<br /><br />This dataset does not contain all the detail available in the NFIRS database.   If after reviewing the documentation, you find additional information you would like added to the dataset, please let us know.* [Care 4 Kids Expenditures By Town Calendar Year 2012](https://data.ct.gov/d/dcwn-aa3d) - Care 4 Kids expenditures by Town for Calendar Year 2012. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services (also called DSS* [Connecticut Fire Department Incidents - 2014 - Fires Only](https://data.ct.gov/d/ycxv-et3w) - Incidents reported by Connecticut fire departments that were recorded as a 100 series incident type: ''Fire. Includes fires out on arrival and gas vapor explosions (with extremely rapid combustion)'* [C4K Children School Age By Setting SFY 2016 Monthly Average](https://data.ct.gov/d/9a8e-emi5) - Care 4 Kids Number of Children, Preschool Age, by Setting Type and Town, SFY 2016 Monthly Average. Care 4 Kids (C4K) is Connecticut's Child Care subsidy program.* [Home Health Rates Effective](https://data.ct.gov/d/jr68-tvgu) - This data provides a list of home health care providers and their private pay rates for long term care services as of January 1st, 2015.* [Heroin Related Deaths  2012-2016](https://data.ct.gov/d/75cd-2dyc) - A listing of each accidental death associated with drug overdose in Connecticut from 2012 to 2015. A "Y" value under the different substance columns indicates that particular substance was detected.<br /><br />Data are derived from an investigation by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report, death certificate, as well as a scene investigation.<br /><br />The “Morphine (Not Heroin)” values are related to the differences between how Morphine and Heroin are metabolized and therefor detected in the toxicity results. Heroin metabolizes to 6-MAM which then metabolizes to morphine.  6-MAM is unique to heroin, and has a short half-life (as does heroin itself). Thus, in some heroin deaths, the toxicity results will not indicate whether the morphine is from heroin or prescription morphine. In these cases the Medical Examiner may be able to determine the cause based on the scene investigation (such as  finding heroin needles). If they find prescription morphine at the scene it is certified as “Morphine (not heroin).”  Therefor, the Cause of Death may indicate Morphine, but the Heroin or Morphine (Not Heroin) may not be indicated.<br /><br /> “Any Opioid” – If the Medical Examiner cannot conclude whether it’s RX Morphine or heroin based morphine in the toxicity results, that column may be checked* [Care 4 Kids Average Families Served per Month 2011](https://data.ct.gov/d/59q7-vx2z) - Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services.* [Care 4 Kids Total Families Served FY 2010](https://data.ct.gov/d/psqf-2jv4) - Care 4 Kids unduplicated total families served in State Fiscal Year 2010. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services (also called DSS* [Chronic Absenteeism by District: 2011-12](https://data.ct.gov/d/rray-3xfa) - Chronic absenteeism is defined as missing 10 percent or more of the days enrolled in a school year for any reason. Commonly reported aggregate attendance measures such as average daily attendance in many instances do not adequately highlight the extent of student absenteeism. This dataset contains aggregate chronic absenteeism rates at the overall district level and by selected student subgroups. Percentages are presented where the cell statistic is representative of 20 students or more; where the cell statistic is representative of fewer than 20 total students the cell is suppressed and an asterisk is displayed. National research1 as well as Connecticut education data2 highlight the association of chronic absenteeism to student academic achievement and high school graduation. Chronic absenteeism is also a key metric in the Department of Education’s school turnaround initiatives (i.e., Alliance Districts and Commissioner’s Network schools).

1 Balfanz, R., & Byrnes, V. (2012). Chronic Absenteeism: Summarizing What We Know From Nationally Available Data. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Center for Social Organizations of Schools.

2 http://www.sde.ct.gov/sde/lib/sde/pdf/deps/chronicabsenteeism/learningfromthedata.statepresentation.pdf* [Uniform Crime Reporting System Offenses in 2010](https://data.ct.gov/d/usrc-sgkg) - The Uniform Crime Reporting Program measures the extent, fluctuation and distribution of crime throughout the United States. After counting Crime Index offenses reported, minus any unfounded complaints, contributors provide the number of “actual offenses” and the number of crimes cleared. For a criminal offense to be “cleared,” either of the following situations must prevail: (1) at least one person is arrested, charged, and turned over to the court for prosecution; or (2) some element beyond police control precludes the physical arrest of the offender (e.g., death of offender, victim refuses to cooperate, confession by offender already in police custody), resulting in the offense being cleared by “exceptional means.” Contributing agencies also include data on the value of property stolen and recovered in connection with the reported offenses, plus specific information regarding homicides, officers assaulted and arson.* [Care 4 Kids Unique Children By Age Group FY12](https://data.ct.gov/d/566n-8368) - Care 4 Kids unique children served by age group by Town in Fiscal Year 2012. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services* [Connecticut Fire Department Incidents - 2014](https://data.ct.gov/d/axrk-twst) - Superseded by 'Connecticut Fire Department Incidents (2012-2015)', which is found here:  https://data.ct.gov/Public-Safety/Connecticut-Fire-Department-Incidents-2012-2015-/qem9-rt8k


Incidents reported by Connecticut fire departments on the full range of their activities, from fire to emergency medical services (EMS) to equipment involved in the response.
See the attached documents, under the 'About' tab, for more information.* [Care 4 Kids Total Families Served FY 2012](https://data.ct.gov/d/3dd4-v7yv) - Care 4 Kids unduplicated total families served in State Fiscal Year 2012. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services* [EMS Calls 2014](https://data.ct.gov/d/r7n8-h87j) - Superseded by 'Connecticut Fire Department Incidents (2012-2015)', which is found here:  https://data.ct.gov/Public-Safety/Connecticut-Fire-Department-Incidents-2012-2015-/qem9-rt8k


Incidents reported by Connecticut fire departments on the full range of their activities, from fire to emergency medical services (EMS) to equipment involved in the response.
See the attached documents, under the 'About' tab, for more information.* [EMS Calls 2014](https://data.ct.gov/d/r7n8-h87j) - Superseded by 'Connecticut Fire Department Incidents (2012-2015)', which is found here:  https://data.ct.gov/Public-Safety/Connecticut-Fire-Department-Incidents-2012-2015-/qem9-rt8k


Incidents reported by Connecticut fire departments on the full range of their activities, from fire to emergency medical services (EMS) to equipment involved in the response.
See the attached documents, under the 'About' tab, for more information.* [Care 4 Kids Total Families Served FY 2012](https://data.ct.gov/d/3dd4-v7yv) - Care 4 Kids unduplicated total families served in State Fiscal Year 2012. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services* [Care 4 Kids Preschool Age By Setting SFY 2016 Monthly](https://data.ct.gov/d/riag-643y) - Care 4 Kids Number of Children, Preschool Age Category by Setting Type and by Town, SFY 2016 Monthly. Care 4 Kids (C4K) is Connecticut's Child Care subsidy program. Includes total.* [Connecticut Medicare Provider Utilization and Payment Data 2014: Part D Prescriber](https://data.ct.gov/d/39nn-2ekf) - The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has prepared a public data set, the Medicare Provider Utilization and Payment Data: Part D Prescriber Public Use File (PUF), with information on prescription drugs prescribed by individual physicians and other health care providers and paid for under the Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Program. The Part D Prescriber PUF is based on information from CMS’s Chronic Conditions Data Warehouse, which contains Prescription Drug Event records submitted by Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug (MAPD) plans and by stand-alone Prescription Drug Plans (PDP). The dataset identifies providers by their National Provider Identifier (NPI) and the specific prescriptions that were dispensed at their direction, listed by brand name (if applicable) and generic name. For each prescriber and drug, the dataset includes the total number of prescriptions that were dispensed, which include original prescriptions and any refills, and the total drug cost. The total drug cost includes the ingredient cost of the medication, dispensing fees, sales tax, and any applicable administration fees and is based on the amount paid by the Part D plan, Medicare beneficiary, government subsidies, and any other third-party payers.
Although the Part D Prescriber PUF has a wealth of information on payment and utilization for Medicare Part D prescriptions, the dataset has a number of limitations. Of particular importance is the fact that the data may not be representative of a physician’s entire practice or all of Medicare as it only includes information on beneficiaries enrolled in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (i.e., approximately two-thirds of all Medicare beneficiaries). In addition, the data are not intended to indicate the quality of care provided. For additional limitations, please review the methodology document in the About tab.* [Home And Community Based Services Rates as of January 1st, 2015](https://data.ct.gov/d/dtti-4mqx) - This data provides a list of home and community-based service providers and their private pay rates for long term care services.* [Accidental Drug Related Deaths by County: 2012-2017](https://data.ct.gov/d/9x7q-pz53) - A listing of each accidental death associated with drug overdose in Connecticut from 2012 to June 2017. A "Y" value under the different substance columns indicates that particular substance was detected.<br /><br />Data are derived from an investigation by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report, death certificate, as well as a scene investigation.<br /><br />The “Morphine (Not Heroin)” values are related to the differences between how Morphine and Heroin are metabolized and therefor detected in the toxicity results. Heroin metabolizes to 6-MAM which then metabolizes to morphine.  6-MAM is unique to heroin, and has a short half-life (as does heroin itself). Thus, in some heroin deaths, the toxicity results will not indicate whether the morphine is from heroin or prescription morphine. In these cases the Medical Examiner may be able to determine the cause based on the scene investigation (such as  finding heroin needles). If they find prescription morphine at the scene it is certified as “Morphine (not heroin).”  Therefor, the Cause of Death may indicate Morphine, but the Heroin or Morphine (Not Heroin) may not be indicated.<br /><br /> “Any Opioid” – If the Medical Examiner cannot conclude whether it’s RX Morphine or heroin based morphine in the toxicity results, that column may be checked* [Care 4 Kids Unique Children By Age Group FY11](https://data.ct.gov/d/vu37-8imu) - Care 4 Kids unique children served by age group by Town in Fiscal Year 2011. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services* [Uniform Crime Reporting System Offenses By Department 2011](https://data.ct.gov/d/6huw-7yzj) - The Uniform Crime Reporting Program measures the extent, fluctuation and distribution of crime throughout the United States. After counting Crime Index offenses reported, minus any unfounded complaints, contributors provide the number of “actual offenses” and the number of crimes cleared. For a criminal offense to be “cleared,” either of the following situations must prevail: (1) at least one person is arrested, charged, and turned over to the court for prosecution; or (2) some element beyond police control precludes the physical arrest of the offender (e.g., death of offender, victim refuses to cooperate, confession by offender already in police custody), resulting in the offense being cleared by “exceptional means.” Contributing agencies also include data on the value of property stolen and recovered in connection with the reported offenses, plus specific information regarding homicides, officers assaulted and arson.* [Care 4 Kids Total Families Served FY 2011](https://data.ct.gov/d/3mqv-d66s) - Care 4 Kids unduplicated total families served in State Fiscal Year 2011. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services* [Discharged Children With Permanency Maintained 12 Months:  Annual Trend By Gender](https://data.ct.gov/d/cu87-7qvx) - This dataset contains aggregate data concerning the number of child placement episodes that ended with a legal discharge from DCF care, and for whom the end of a 12 month observation period (starting with their legal discharge date) terminated during the SFY.  These figures are broken out by the DCF Region and Office responsible for the child's care, by their Gender, and by whether another placement episode for that child began within 12 months of their discharge from care or not.  It would be appropriate to roll up the data from all variables across multiple time periods, as they represent specific events in the lives of these children.  These data form the basis of measurement for the Juan F. Consent Decree Exit Plan Outcome #11: Permanency Maintained (No Re-Entry), although those figures are reported to the DCF Court Monitor on a quarterly rather than annual schedule.* [Discharged Children With Permanency Maintained 12 Months:  Annual Trend By Age Group](https://data.ct.gov/d/8j4j-nxky) - This dataset contains aggregate data concerning the number of child placement episodes that ended with a legal discharge from DCF care, and for whom the end of a 12 month observation period (starting with their legal discharge date) terminated during the SFY.  These figures are broken out by the DCF Region and Office responsible for the child's care, by their Age Group, and by whether another placement episode for that child began within 12 months of their discharge from care or not.  It would be appropriate to roll up the data from all variables across multiple time periods, as they represent specific events in the lives of these children.  These data form the basis of measurement for the Juan F. Consent Decree Exit Plan Outcome #11: Permanency Maintained (No Re-Entry), although those figures are reported to the DCF Court Monitor on a quarterly rather than annual schedule.* [Discharged Children With Permanency Maintained 12 Months:  Annual Trend By Race/Ethnicity](https://data.ct.gov/d/2s8m-2xqm) - This dataset contains aggregate data concerning the number of child placement episodes that ended with a legal discharge from DCF care, and for whom the end of a 12 month observation period (starting with their legal discharge date) terminated during the SFY.  These figures are broken out by the DCF Region and Office responsible for the child's care, by their Race/Ethnicity, and by whether another placement episode for that child began within 12 months of their discharge from care or not.  It would be appropriate to roll up the data from all variables across multiple time periods, as they represent specific events in the lives of these children.  These data form the basis of measurement for the Juan F. Consent Decree Exit Plan Outcome #11: Permanency Maintained (No Re-Entry), although those figures are reported to the DCF Court Monitor on a quarterly rather than annual schedule.* [Connecticut Fire Department Incidents - 2014 Structure Fires Only](https://data.ct.gov/d/ascp-tvpc) - Incidents reported by Connecticut fire departments on the full range of their activities, from fire to emergency medical services (EMS) to equipment involved in the response.* [Family Day Care Homes](https://data.ct.gov/d/4jc3-c5bs) - This dataset will sunset and is no longer maintained. The following is updated on a nightly basis:
https://data.ct.gov/Business/Child-Care-Youth-Camp-Licensing-Program-Data/h8mr-dn95

Family day care homes are private family homes caring for not more than six children, including the provider’s own children not in school full time, where the children are cared for not less than three nor more than twelve hours during a twenty-four hour period and where care is given on a regularly recurring basis, except that care may be provided in excess of twelve hours but not more than seventy-two consecutive hours to accommodate a need for extended care or intermittent short-term overnight care. During the regular school year, a maximum of three additional children who are in school full time, including the provider’s own children, are permitted, except that if the provider has more than three children who are in school full time, all of the provider’s children are permitted.* [Care 4 Kids Average Families Served per Month 2013](https://data.ct.gov/d/chyx-qrjt) - Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services.* [Uniform Crime Reporting System Offenses  By Department 2010](https://data.ct.gov/d/agnh-ukdm) - The Uniform Crime Reporting Program measures the extent, fluctuation and distribution of crime throughout the United States. After counting Crime Index offenses reported, minus any unfounded complaints, contributors provide the number of “actual offenses” and the number of crimes cleared. For a criminal offense to be “cleared,” either of the following situations must prevail: (1) at least one person is arrested, charged, and turned over to the court for prosecution; or (2) some element beyond police control precludes the physical arrest of the offender (e.g., death of offender, victim refuses to cooperate, confession by offender already in police custody), resulting in the offense being cleared by “exceptional means.” Contributing agencies also include data on the value of property stolen and recovered in connection with the reported offenses, plus specific information regarding homicides, officers assaulted and arson.* [Uniform Crime Reporting System Offenses by Department 2012](https://data.ct.gov/d/pef7-bzkf) - The Uniform Crime Reporting Program measures the extent, fluctuation and distribution of crime throughout the United States. After counting Crime Index offenses reported, minus any unfounded complaints, contributors provide the number of “actual offenses” and the number of crimes cleared. For a criminal offense to be “cleared,” either of the following situations must prevail: (1) at least one person is arrested, charged, and turned over to the court for prosecution; or (2) some element beyond police control precludes the physical arrest of the offender (e.g., death of offender, victim refuses to cooperate, confession by offender already in police custody), resulting in the offense being cleared by “exceptional means.” Contributing agencies also include data on the value of property stolen and recovered in connection with the reported offenses, plus specific information regarding homicides, officers assaulted and arson.* [Care 4 Kids Infant Toddler By Setting SFY 2016 Monthly](https://data.ct.gov/d/ggte-jya8) - Care 4 Kids Number of Children, Infant/Toddler Age Category by Setting Type and by Town, SFY 2016 Monthly. Care 4 Kids (C4K) is Connecticut's Child Care subsidy program. Includes total.* [DCF Children in Placement:  Annual Point-in-Time Trend By Race/Ethnicity](https://data.ct.gov/d/tnyk-6fv7) - This dataset contains aggregate data concerning the number of unique children placed in open DCF placements on the observation date (July 1st each year).  These figures are broken out by the DCF Region and Office responsible for the child's care, the child's Race/Ethnicity, whether the placement setting is in or out-of-state, and by the categorical Placement Type in which the child is residing on the observation date.* [Care 4 Kids Average Families Served per Month 2012](https://data.ct.gov/d/b8m4-qg3s) - Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services (also called DSS* [Uniform Crime Reporting System Offenses 2012](https://data.ct.gov/d/3it6-9q8n) - The Uniform Crime Reporting Program measures the extent, fluctuation and distribution of crime throughout the United States. 

After counting Crime Index offenses reported, minus any unfounded complaints, contributors provide the number of “actual offenses” and the number of crimes cleared. For a criminal offense to be “cleared,” either of the following situations must prevail: (1) at least one person is arrested, charged, and turned over to the court for prosecution; or (2) some element beyond police control precludes the physical arrest of the offender (e.g., death of offender, victim refuses to cooperate, confession by offender already in police custody), resulting in the offense being cleared by “exceptional means.” Contributing agencies also include data on the value of property stolen and recovered in connection with the reported offenses, plus specific information regarding homicides, officers assaulted and arson.* [Care 4 Kids Expenditures By Town CY 2010](https://data.ct.gov/d/ckjp-mix6) - Care 4 Kids expenditure by Town per calendar year 2010. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services (also called DSS* [Uniform Crime Reporting System Offenses By Department 2013](https://data.ct.gov/d/9cnu-4c7f) - The Uniform Crime Reporting Program measures the extent, fluctuation and distribution of crime throughout the United States. After counting Crime Index offenses reported, minus any unfounded complaints, contributors provide the number of “actual offenses” and the number of crimes cleared. For a criminal offense to be “cleared,” either of the following situations must prevail: (1) at least one person is arrested, charged, and turned over to the court for prosecution; or (2) some element beyond police control precludes the physical arrest of the offender (e.g., death of offender, victim refuses to cooperate, confession by offender already in police custody), resulting in the offense being cleared by “exceptional means.” Contributing agencies also include data on the value of property stolen and recovered in connection with the reported offenses, plus specific information regarding homicides, officers assaulted and arson.* [Sample -Accidental Drug Related Deaths New Britain, Norwalk, Norwich](https://data.ct.gov/d/46uw-4tnm) - A listing of each accidental death associated with drug overdose in Connecticut from 2012 to June 2017. A "Y" value under the different substance columns indicates that particular substance was detected.<br /><br />Data are derived from an investigation by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report, death certificate, as well as a scene investigation.<br /><br />The “Morphine (Not Heroin)” values are related to the differences between how Morphine and Heroin are metabolized and therefor detected in the toxicity results. Heroin metabolizes to 6-MAM which then metabolizes to morphine.  6-MAM is unique to heroin, and has a short half-life (as does heroin itself). Thus, in some heroin deaths, the toxicity results will not indicate whether the morphine is from heroin or prescription morphine. In these cases the Medical Examiner may be able to determine the cause based on the scene investigation (such as  finding heroin needles). If they find prescription morphine at the scene it is certified as “Morphine (not heroin).”  Therefor, the Cause of Death may indicate Morphine, but the Heroin or Morphine (Not Heroin) may not be indicated.<br /><br /> “Any Opioid” – If the Medical Examiner cannot conclude whether it’s RX Morphine or heroin based morphine in the toxicity results, that column may be checked* [Connecticut Medicare Part D Opioid Prescriber Summary File 2015](https://data.ct.gov/d/3m4u-km6m) - The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has prepared a public data set, the Medicare Part D Opioid Prescriber Summary File, which presents information on the individual opioid prescribing rates of health providers that participate in Medicare Part D program. This file is a prescriber-level data set that provides data on the number and percentage of prescription claims (includes new prescriptions and refills) for opioid drugs, and contains information on each provider’s name, specialty, state, and ZIP code. This summary file was derived from the 2015 Part D Prescriber Summary Table (Documentation available at: https://www.cms.gov/Research-Statistics-Data-and-Systems/Statistics-Trends-and-Reports/Medicare-Provider-Charge-Data/Downloads/Prescriber_Methods.pdf* [Connecticut Medicare Part D Opioid Prescriber Summary File 2014](https://data.ct.gov/d/sex7-73ic) - The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has prepared a public data set, the Medicare Part D Opioid Prescriber Summary File, which presents information on the individual opioid prescribing rates of health providers that participate in Medicare Part D program. This file is a prescriber-level data set that provides data on the number and percentage of prescription claims (includes new prescriptions and refills) for opioid drugs, and contains information on each provider’s name, specialty, state, and ZIP code. This summary file was derived from the 2014 Part D Prescriber Summary Table (Documentation available at: https://www.cms.gov/Research-Statistics-Data-and-Systems/Statistics-Trends-and-Reports/Medicare-Provider-Charge-Data/Downloads/Prescriber_Methods.pdf)* [Care 4 Kids Unique Children By Age Group FY13](https://data.ct.gov/d/daph-qkdb) - Care 4 Kids unique children served by age group by Town in Fiscal Year 2013. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services* [Connecticut Fire Department Incidents (2012-2015)](https://data.ct.gov/d/qem9-rt8k) - This dataset contains Connecticut Fire Department Incidents as reported to the National Fire Department Incident Reporting System (NFIRS).

NFIRS collects details on Fire, HazMat and EMS incidences nationwide, detailing the type of incident, where it occurred, the resources used to mitigate it and more, with a goal of understanding the nature and causes of the incidents. Information is also collected on the number of civilian or firefighter casualties and an estimate of property loss.

Participation in NFIRS is voluntary.  

Data is released yearly, with a considerable delay.

Each Incidence is assigned a 3 digit Incidence Type Code.  The code describes the situation emergency personnel found when they arrived.  Incidence Types are grouped into larger categories, called Series.  

For example, Series 400, 'Hazardous Condition' category includes incidence types: 411, 'Gasoline or other flammable liquid spill; 412, 'Gas leak and 413, 'Oil or other combustible liquid spill '.

Not every Incidence Type is included in the data.   In 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, the NFIRS data releases contained these Series/Incidence Types:

  Series 100: Fire Incidences,
  Series 400: Hazardous Condition (No Fire),
  Incidence Type 561: Unauthorized burning, under the 'Service Call' Series,
  Incidence Type 631: Authorized Controlled Burning, under the 'Good Intent Call' series and
  Incidence Type 632: Prescribed fires also under the 'Good Intent Call' series.

The 2014 release included these additional series:

  200: Overpressure Rupture, Explosion, Overheat (No Fire), 
  300: Rescue and Emergency Medical Service (EMS) Incidents, 
  500: Service Calls, 
  600: Good Intent Call Series,
  700: False Alarm and False Call,
  800 Severe Weather and Natural Disaster
  900: Special Incident Type.

The official NFIRS documentation has been attached to this dataset.

This dataset does not contain all the detail available in the NFIRS database.   If after reviewing the documentation, you find additional information you would like added to the dataset, please let us know.* [Opioid Related Treatment Admissions by Town in Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services Programs](https://data.ct.gov/d/hyf6-jfsd) - Town level data on depicting the number of admissions, and individuals served per year in treatment programs funded or operated by the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, where the primary drug at admission was an opioid. Clients entering these programs were treated for their opioid related disorder as a result of it being the primary drug at the time of admission. This dataset does not reflect ALL individuals in Connecticut who have participated in an opioid related treatment program, but only service provided by the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, nor are these programs specifically designated as "opioid treatment."<br /><br />* Values less than or equal to 5 and greater than 0 have been suppressed to protect the indentity of individuals.* [Connecticut Medicare Part D Opioid Prescriber Summary File 2016](https://data.ct.gov/d/xxvm-8cur) - The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) has prepared a public data set, the Medicare Part D Opioid Prescriber Summary File, which presents information on the individual opioid prescribing rates of health providers that participate in Medicare Part D program. This file is a prescriber-level data set that provides data on the number and percentage of prescription claims (includes new prescriptions and refills) for opioid drugs, and contains information on each provider’s name, specialty, state, and ZIP code. This summary file was derived from the 2016 Part D Prescriber Summary Table (Documentation available at: https://www.cms.gov/Research-Statistics-Data-and-Systems/Statistics-Trends-and-Reports/Medicare-Provider-Charge-Data/Downloads/Prescriber_Methods.pdf)* [Reunifications by SFY, DCF Office, Gender and Length of Stay](https://data.ct.gov/d/6rr7-9fb2) - This dataset contains aggregate data concerning the number of children that exited DCF care to be Reunified with a parent/guardian from whom they had been removed.  These figures are broken out by the DCF Region and Office responsible for the child's care, by their Gender, and by whether they had been Reunified within 12 months of their entry to care or not.  It would be appropriate to roll up the data from all variables across multiple time periods, as they represent specific events in the lives of these children.  Please note that these figures do not represent unique children, and so should not be used as the basis for creating a rate based on the child population of the state.  These data form the basis of measurement for the Juan F. Consent Decree Exit Plan Outcome #7: Reunification Within 12 Months, although those figures are reported to the DCF Court Monitor on a quarterly rather than annual schedule.* [Accidental Drug Related Deaths  by Age 2012-2016](https://data.ct.gov/d/s9xn-aujc) - A listing of each accidental death associated with drug overdose in Connecticut from 2012 to 2015. A "Y" value under the different substance columns indicates that particular substance was detected.<br /><br />Data are derived from an investigation by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report, death certificate, as well as a scene investigation.<br /><br />The “Morphine (Not Heroin)” values are related to the differences between how Morphine and Heroin are metabolized and therefor detected in the toxicity results. Heroin metabolizes to 6-MAM which then metabolizes to morphine.  6-MAM is unique to heroin, and has a short half-life (as does heroin itself). Thus, in some heroin deaths, the toxicity results will not indicate whether the morphine is from heroin or prescription morphine. In these cases the Medical Examiner may be able to determine the cause based on the scene investigation (such as  finding heroin needles). If they find prescription morphine at the scene it is certified as “Morphine (not heroin).”  Therefor, the Cause of Death may indicate Morphine, but the Heroin or Morphine (Not Heroin) may not be indicated.<br /><br /> “Any Opioid” – If the Medical Examiner cannot conclude whether it’s RX Morphine or heroin based morphine in the toxicity results, that column may be checked* [Chronic Absenteeism by District: 2012-13](https://data.ct.gov/d/3bmw-7hhc) - Chronic absenteeism is defined as missing 10 percent or more of the days enrolled in a school year for any reason. Commonly reported aggregate attendance measures such as average daily attendance in many instances do not adequately highlight the extent of student absenteeism. This dataset contains aggregate chronic absenteeism rates at the overall district level and by selected student subgroups. Percentages are presented where the cell statistic is representative of 20 students or more; where the cell statistic is representative of fewer than 20 total students the cell is suppressed and an asterisk is displayed. National research1 as well as Connecticut education data2 highlight the association of chronic absenteeism to student academic achievement and high school graduation. Chronic absenteeism is also a key metric in the Department of Education’s school turnaround initiatives (i.e., Alliance Districts and Commissioner’s Network schools).

1 Balfanz, R., & Byrnes, V. (2012). Chronic Absenteeism: Summarizing What We Know From Nationally Available Data. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Center for Social Organizations of Schools.

2 http://www.sde.ct.gov/sde/lib/sde/pdf/deps/chronicabsenteeism/learningfromthedata.statepresentation.pdf* [Asthma Hospitalization by town [visualized]](https://data.ct.gov/d/je6w-uatv) - This tables provides the crude and age-adjusted rates for hospitalization and emergency department visits due to asthma as a primary diagnosis.  The information is a five-year aggregate data from 2005 to 2009 and it is provided at the Connecticut town level.* [Child Day Care Centers And Group Day Care Homes](https://data.ct.gov/d/buy2-z4cz) - Group day care homes offer or provide a program of supplementary care (A) to not less than seven or more than twelve related or unrelated children on a regular basis, or (B) that meets the definition of a family day care home except that it operates in a facility other than a private family home.

Child day care centers offer or provide a program of supplementary care to more than twelve related or unrelated children outside their own home on a regular basis.* [Home And Community Based Services Rates as of January 1st, 2015](https://data.ct.gov/d/dtti-4mqx) - This data provides a list of home and community-based service providers and their private pay rates for long term care services.* [Accidental Drug Related Deaths by County: 2012-2017](https://data.ct.gov/d/9x7q-pz53) - A listing of each accidental death associated with drug overdose in Connecticut from 2012 to June 2017. A "Y" value under the different substance columns indicates that particular substance was detected.<br /><br />Data are derived from an investigation by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report, death certificate, as well as a scene investigation.<br /><br />The “Morphine (Not Heroin)” values are related to the differences between how Morphine and Heroin are metabolized and therefor detected in the toxicity results. Heroin metabolizes to 6-MAM which then metabolizes to morphine.  6-MAM is unique to heroin, and has a short half-life (as does heroin itself). Thus, in some heroin deaths, the toxicity results will not indicate whether the morphine is from heroin or prescription morphine. In these cases the Medical Examiner may be able to determine the cause based on the scene investigation (such as  finding heroin needles). If they find prescription morphine at the scene it is certified as “Morphine (not heroin).”  Therefor, the Cause of Death may indicate Morphine, but the Heroin or Morphine (Not Heroin) may not be indicated.<br /><br /> “Any Opioid” – If the Medical Examiner cannot conclude whether it’s RX Morphine or heroin based morphine in the toxicity results, that column may be checked* [Care 4 Kids Unique Children By Age Group FY11](https://data.ct.gov/d/vu37-8imu) - Care 4 Kids unique children served by age group by Town in Fiscal Year 2011. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services* [Private Pay Rates for Home and Community-Based Long Term Care Services 2014 Home And CBS Rates](https://data.ct.gov/d/efa5-f6zx) - This survey provides a list of home and community-based providers and their private pay rates for long term care services.* [Special Education Prevalence: 2008-2013](https://data.ct.gov/d/8r57-txmy) - This dataset contains K-12 special education prevalence rates by district for school years 2008-09, 2009-10, 2010-11, 2011-12, 2012-13 and 2013-14. Prevalence is included for each disability type as well as overall special education. The overall special education prevalence is calculated by dividing the number of students with disabilities in a district by the total number of students in the district. Prevalence for individual disability types is calculated by dividing the number of students with the specific disability in a district by the total number of students in the district. Note: The category of Other Disability includes disabilities of Hearing Impairment, Visual Impairment, Orthopedic Impairment, Deaf/Blindness, Multiple Disabilities, Traumatic Brain Injury, and Developmental Delay.* [Kindergarten Students with Pre-kindergarten Experience by District: 2009-2012](https://data.ct.gov/d/afba-qnxy) - This dataset contains the percentage of Kindergarten students with Pre-kindergarten experience by district for school years 2009-10 through 2012-13.* [Uniform Crime Reporting System Offenses 2013](https://data.ct.gov/d/rphg-kgwv) - The Uniform Crime Reporting Program measures the extent, fluctuation and distribution of crime throughout the United States. After counting Crime Index offenses reported, minus any unfounded complaints, contributors provide the number of “actual offenses” and the number of crimes cleared. For a criminal offense to be “cleared,” either of the following situations must prevail: (1) at least one person is arrested, charged, and turned over to the court for prosecution; or (2) some element beyond police control precludes the physical arrest of the offender (e.g., death of offender, victim refuses to cooperate, confession by offender already in police custody), resulting in the offense being cleared by “exceptional means.” Contributing agencies also include data on the value of property stolen and recovered in connection with the reported offenses, plus specific information regarding homicides, officers assaulted and arson.* [C4K Children By Setting SFY 2016 Monthly Average](https://data.ct.gov/d/xfnq-tdn5) - Care 4 Kids Number of Children, All Age Groups by Setting Type and Town, SFY 2016 Monthly Average. Care 4 Kids (C4K) is Connecticut's Child Care subsidy program.* [Care 4 Kids Total Families Served FY 2013](https://data.ct.gov/d/ru4i-m74j) - Care 4 Kids unduplicated total families served in State Fiscal Year 2013. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services* [Adoptions by SFY, DCF Office, Race/Ethnicity and Length of Stay](https://data.ct.gov/d/jbcf-222v) - This dataset contains aggregate data concerning the number of children that exited DCF care to an Adoption.  These figures are broken out by the DCF Region and Office responsible for the child's care, by their Race/Ethnicity, and by whether their exit from care occurred within 24 months of their entry to care or not.  It would be appropriate to roll up the data from all variables across multiple time periods, as they represent specific events in the lives of these children.  Please note that these figures do not represent unique children, and so should not be used as the basis for creating a rate based on the child population of the state.  These data form the basis of measurement for the Juan F. Consent Decree Exit Plan Outcome #8: Adoption Within 24 Months, although those figures are reported to the DCF Court Monitor on a quarterly rather than annual schedule.* [Bridgeport, CT Fire Department Incidents - 2014](https://data.ct.gov/d/ugtp-hwh5) - Incidents reported by Connecticut fire departments on the full range of their activities, from fire to emergency medical services (EMS) to equipment involved in the response.* [Care 4 Kids School Age By Setting SFY 2016 Monthly](https://data.ct.gov/d/4jac-jtx8) - Care 4 Kids Number of Children, School Age Category by Setting Type and by Town, SFY 2016 Monthly. Care 4 Kids (C4K) is Connecticut's Child Care subsidy program. Includes total.* [C4K Children Infants And Toddlers By Setting SFY 2016 Monthly Average](https://data.ct.gov/d/2sdx-23q6) - Care 4 Kids Number of Children, Preschool Age, by Setting Type and Town, SFY 2016 Monthly Average. Care 4 Kids (C4K) is Connecticut's Child Care subsidy program.* [DCF Children in Placement:  Annual Point-in-Time Trend By Gender](https://data.ct.gov/d/agib-7xfs) - This dataset contains aggregate data concerning the number of unique children placed in open DCF placements on the observation date (July 1st each year).  These figures are broken out by the DCF Region and Office responsible for the child's care, the child's Gender, whether the placement setting is in or out-of-state, and by the categorical Placement Type in which the child is residing on the observation date.* [Conservation and Development Policies Plan 2013-2018 Priority Funding Areas](https://data.ct.gov/d/uh3c-4r63) - Priority Funding Areas are delineated based on conditions that exist at the Census Block level, which is the smallest geographical unit delineated by the U.S. Census Bureau. Census Blocks are statistical areas which in Connecticut are typically bounded by visible features, such as streets, roads, streams, and railroad lines. Generally, Census Blocks in denser urban communities are small in area, such as a block in a city that is bounded on all sides by streets. However, Census Blocks in suburban and rural areas may be large, or irregular, and bounded by a variety of features, such as roads or streams. For example, a specific Census Block may be partially served by public water and/or sewer, and thus the entire block would appear to be served by these utilities. There were several instances during the public comment period where municipalities requested that certain Census Blocks be removed from this classification, and such requests were granted. Any limitations in the use of Census Blocks in this LGM should not be construed as influencing local land use and zoning decisions or municipal plans of conservation and development; nor should it create any expectation for future utility service where none currently exists.
Priority Funding Areas are classified by Census Blocks that include:  Designation as an Urban Area or Urban Cluster in the 2010 Census Boundaries that intersect a ½ mile buffer surrounding existing or planned mass-transit stations Existing or planned sewer service from an adopted Wastewater Facility Plan Existing or planned water service from an adopted Public Drinking Water Supply Plan Local bus service provided 7 days a week* [Map of Accidental Drug Related Deaths by Town](https://data.ct.gov/d/jw3k-e9s3) - A listing of each accidental death associated with drug overdose in Connecticut from 2012 to June 2017. A "Y" value under the different substance columns indicates that particular substance was detected.<br /><br />Data are derived from an investigation by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report, death certificate, as well as a scene investigation.<br /><br />The “Morphine (Not Heroin)” values are related to the differences between how Morphine and Heroin are metabolized and therefor detected in the toxicity results. Heroin metabolizes to 6-MAM which then metabolizes to morphine.  6-MAM is unique to heroin, and has a short half-life (as does heroin itself). Thus, in some heroin deaths, the toxicity results will not indicate whether the morphine is from heroin or prescription morphine. In these cases the Medical Examiner may be able to determine the cause based on the scene investigation (such as  finding heroin needles). If they find prescription morphine at the scene it is certified as “Morphine (not heroin).”  Therefor, the Cause of Death may indicate Morphine, but the Heroin or Morphine (Not Heroin) may not be indicated.<br /><br /> “Any Opioid” – If the Medical Examiner cannot conclude whether it’s RX Morphine or heroin based morphine in the toxicity results, that column may be checked* [Accidental Drug Overdose Related Deaths  2012-2016](https://data.ct.gov/view/7irm-jc9i) - A listing of each accidental death associated with drug overdose in Connecticut from 2012 to 2015. A "Y" value under the different substance columns indicates that particular substance was detected.<br /><br />Data are derived from an investigation by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report, death certificate, as well as a scene investigation.<br /><br />The “Morphine (Not Heroin)” values are related to the differences between how Morphine and Heroin are metabolized and therefor detected in the toxicity results. Heroin metabolizes to 6-MAM which then metabolizes to morphine.  6-MAM is unique to heroin, and has a short half-life (as does heroin itself). Thus, in some heroin deaths, the toxicity results will not indicate whether the morphine is from heroin or prescription morphine. In these cases the Medical Examiner may be able to determine the cause based on the scene investigation (such as  finding heroin needles). If they find prescription morphine at the scene it is certified as “Morphine (not heroin).”  Therefor, the Cause of Death may indicate Morphine, but the Heroin or Morphine (Not Heroin) may not be indicated.<br /><br /> “Any Opioid” – If the Medical Examiner cannot conclude whether it’s RX Morphine or heroin based morphine in the toxicity results, that column may be checked* [Transfer Of Guardianship by SFY, DCF Office, Race and Length of Stay](https://data.ct.gov/d/5zcb-pez4) - This dataset contains aggregate data concerning the number of children that exited DCF care to a Transfer of Guardianship.  These figures are broken out by the DCF Region and Office responsible for the child's care, by their Race/Ethnicity, and by whether their exit from care occurred within 24 months of their entry to care or not.  It would be appropriate to roll up the data from all variables across multiple time periods, as they represent specific events in the lives of these children.  Please note that these figures do not represent unique children, and so should not be used as the basis for creating a rate based on the child population of the state.  These data form the basis of measurement for the Juan F. Consent Decree Exit Plan Outcome #9: Transfer of Guardianship Within 24 Months, although those figures are reported to the DCF Court Monitor on a quarterly rather than annual schedule.* [Traffic Stops - Racial Profiling Prohibition Project](https://data.ct.gov/d/nahi-zqrt) - The Institute for Municipal and Regional Policy (IMRP) at Central Connecticut State University, in consultation with the Office of Policy and Management (OPM), has established a Racial Profiling Prohibition Advisory Board to help oversee the design, evaluation, and management of the racial profiling study mandated by PA 12-74, “An Act Concerning Traffic Stop Information.” The IMRP is working with the advisory board and all appropriate parties to enhance the collection and analysis of traffic stop data in Connecticut. Resources for the project are being made available through the National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration (NHTSA) grant, as administered through the Connecticut Department of Transportation.

The primary purpose of the project is to monitor and prohibit racial profiling in Connecticut and to comply with NHTSA grant requirements and are outlined below.

Analyze current racial profiling law and make recommendations to the Connecticut General Assembly to better align the statute to legislative intent and current best practices.
Ensure compliance with the racial profiling law in as efficient, effective, transparent and inclusive a manner possible.
Ensure compliance with NHTSA requirements of Section 1906 funding to include:
Fund activities to prohibit racial profiling in the enforcement of State laws regulating the use of Federal-aid highways
Collect, maintain and provide public access to traffic stop data
Evaluate the results of such data; and develop and implement programs to reduce the occurrence of racial profiling, including programs to train law enforcement officers.
The Racial Profiling Prohibition Project Advisory Board and the project staff have been meeting since May 2012 in an effort to outline a plan to successfully implement PA 12-74. The focus of this early phase of the project has been to better understand traffic stop data collection in other states. Four working groups were established to advise on various aspects of the process including; the standardized method for collecting, recording, reporting, and analyzing racial profiling data required by PA 12-74 and to accomplish tasks required to complete the Racial Profiling Prohibition Project.

For more information contact:

Ken Barrone 
Policy & Research Specialist 
Institute for Municipal & Regional Policy, Central Connecticut State University 
Tel: 860.832.1872 or Email: baroneket@ccsu.edu* [Care 4 Kids Expenditures By Town CY 2011](https://data.ct.gov/d/pqd2-9uud) - Care 4 Kids expenditures by Town for Calendar Year 2011. Care 4 Kids helps low to moderate income families in Connecticut pay for child care costs. This program is sponsored by the State of Connecticut’s Department of Social Services (also called DSS* [Fentanyl Related Deaths  2012-2016](https://data.ct.gov/d/yr5i-4u34) - A listing of each accidental death associated with drug overdose in Connecticut from 2012 to 2015. A "Y" value under the different substance columns indicates that particular substance was detected.<br /><br />Data are derived from an investigation by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report, death certificate, as well as a scene investigation.<br /><br />The “Morphine (Not Heroin)” values are related to the differences between how Morphine and Heroin are metabolized and therefor detected in the toxicity results. Heroin metabolizes to 6-MAM which then metabolizes to morphine.  6-MAM is unique to heroin, and has a short half-life (as does heroin itself). Thus, in some heroin deaths, the toxicity results will not indicate whether the morphine is from heroin or prescription morphine. In these cases the Medical Examiner may be able to determine the cause based on the scene investigation (such as  finding heroin needles). If they find prescription morphine at the scene it is certified as “Morphine (not heroin).”  Therefor, the Cause of Death may indicate Morphine, but the Heroin or Morphine (Not Heroin) may not be indicated.<br /><br /> “Any Opioid” – If the Medical Examiner cannot conclude whether it’s RX Morphine or heroin based morphine in the toxicity results, that column may be checked* [Uniform Crime Reporting Offenses 2016](https://data.ct.gov/d/ucfd-x63p) - The Uniform Crime Reporting Program measures the extent, fluctuation and distribution of crime throughout the United States. After counting Crime Index offenses reported, minus any unfounded complaints, contributors provide the number of “actual offenses” and the number of crimes cleared. For a criminal offense to be “cleared,” either of the following situations must prevail: (1) at least one person is arrested, charged, and turned over to the court for prosecution; or (2) some element beyond police control precludes the physical arrest of the offender (e.g., death of offender, victim refuses to cooperate, confession by offender already in police custody), resulting in the offense being cleared by “exceptional means.” Contributing agencies also include data on the value of property stolen and recovered in connection with the reported offenses, plus specific information regarding homicides, officers assaulted and arson.* [Care 4 Kids Children Preschool Age By Setting SFY 2016 Monthly Average](https://data.ct.gov/d/nj44-rjue) - Care 4 Kids Number of Children, Preschool Age, by Setting Type and Town, SFY 2016 Monthly Average. Care 4 Kids (C4K) is Connecticut's Child Care subsidy program.* [Opioid Related Treatment Admissions by Town in Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services Programs](https://data.ct.gov/d/4pv7-jhxb) - Town level data on depicting the number of admissions, and individuals served per year in treatment programs funded or operated by the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, where the primary drug at admission was an opioid. Clients entering these programs were treated for their opioid related disorder as a result of it being the primary drug at the time of admission. This dataset does not reflect ALL individuals in Connecticut who have participated in an opioid related treatment program, but only service provided by the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, nor are these programs specifically designated as "opioid treatment."

* Values less than or equal to 5 and greater than 0 have been suppressed to protect the identity of individuals.* [Connecticut Fire Departments, as reported to NFIRS](https://data.ct.gov/d/279j-riyb) - This dataset contains Connecticut Fire Department as reported to the National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS).

NFIRS collects details on Fire, HazMat and EMS incidences nationwide, detailing the kind of incident responded to, where it occurred, the resources used to mitigate it and more, with a goal of understanding the nature and causes of the incidents. Information is also collected on the number of civilian or firefighter casualties and an estimate of property loss.

Participation in NFIRS is voluntary.* [Private Pay Rates for Home and Community-Based Long Term Care Services 2014 Home Health Rates](https://data.ct.gov/d/f42j-tjbt) - This survey provides a list of home and community-based providers and their private pay rates for long term care services.* [Connecticut Fire Department Incidents - 2014](https://data.ct.gov/view/mdx2-qmk8) - <div>Incidents reported by Connecticut fire departments on the full range of their activities, from fire to emergency medical services (EMS) to equipment involved in the response.<br></div>* [Adoptions by SFY, DCF Office, Gender and Length of Stay](https://data.ct.gov/d/cyz8-6esi) - This dataset contains aggregate data concerning the number of children that exited DCF care to an Adoption.  These figures are broken out by the DCF Region and Office responsible for the child's care, by their Gender, and by whether their exit from care occurred within 24 months of their entry to care or not.  It would be appropriate to roll up the data from all variables across multiple time periods, as they represent specific events in the lives of these children.  Please note that these figures do not represent unique children, and so should not be used as the basis for creating a rate based on the child population of the state.  These data form the basis of measurement for the Juan F. Consent Decree Exit Plan Outcome #8: Adoption Within 24 Months, although those figures are reported to the DCF Court Monitor on a quarterly rather than annual schedule.* [Uniform Crime Reporting System Offenses By Department 2014](https://data.ct.gov/d/q6p6-vg24) - The Uniform Crime Reporting Program measures the extent, fluctuation and distribution of crime throughout the United States. After counting Crime Index offenses reported, minus any unfounded complaints, contributors provide the number of “actual offenses” and the number of crimes cleared. For a criminal offense to be “cleared,” either of the following situations must prevail: (1) at least one person is arrested, charged, and turned over to the court for prosecution; or (2) some element beyond police control precludes the physical arrest of the offender (e.g., death of offender, victim refuses to cooperate, confession by offender already in police custody), resulting in the offense being cleared by “exceptional means.” Contributing agencies also include data on the value of property stolen and recovered in connection with the reported offenses, plus specific information regarding homicides, officers assaulted and arson.* [Municipal Agents for the Elderly Listing](https://data.ct.gov/d/dsrn-u9nm) - Listing of Department on Aging Municipal Agents for the Elderly* [Accidental Drug Related Deaths  2012-2017](https://data.ct.gov/d/rybz-nyjw) - A listing of each accidental death associated with drug overdose in Connecticut from 2012 to 2017. A "Y" value under the different substance columns indicates that particular substance was detected.

Data are derived from an investigation by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report, death certificate, as well as a scene investigation.

The “Morphine (Not Heroin)” values are related to the differences between how Morphine and Heroin are metabolized and therefor detected in the toxicity results. Heroin metabolizes to 6-MAM which then metabolizes to morphine.  6-MAM is unique to heroin, and has a short half-life (as does heroin itself). Thus, in some heroin deaths, the toxicity results will not indicate whether the morphine is from heroin or prescription morphine. In these cases the Medical Examiner may be able to determine the cause based on the scene investigation (such as  finding heroin needles). If they find prescription morphine at the scene it is certified as “Morphine (not heroin).”  Therefor, the Cause of Death may indicate Morphine, but the Heroin or Morphine (Not Heroin) may not be indicated.

 “Any Opioid” – If the Medical Examiner cannot conclude whether it’s RX Morphine or heroin based morphine in the toxicity results, that column may be checked