# data.cincinnati-oh.gov health datasets
* [Cincinnati Health Department Health Care Centers](https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/d/v8yh-wpss) - This dataset contains general information for Cincinnati Health Department Health Centers. 

This includes:
- Location (street address, zipcode, neighborhood)
- Care type (medical, dental, vision, school based health center)
- Days and hours of operation (including special hours)
- Services provided
- Insurance accepted
- Phone number 

This data set is updated as needed. Data is maintained and provided by the Cincinnati Health Department. For more information: https://www.cincinnati-oh.gov/health/city-of-cincinnati-primary-care/* [July - August 2017 Fire Report](https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/d/p4wh-yreh) - Fire Incident data includes all fire incident responses. This includes emergency medical services (EMS) calls, fires, rescue incidents, and all other services handled by the Fire Department.

The source of this data is the City of Cincinnati's computer aided dispatch (CAD) database.

This data is updated daily.

DISCLAIMER: In compliance with privacy laws, all Public Safety datasets are anonymized and appropriately redacted prior to publication on the City of Cincinnati’s Open Data Portal. This means that for all public safety datasets: (1) the last two digits of all addresses have been replaced with “XX,” and in cases where there is a single digit street address, the entire address number is replaced with "X"; and (2) Latitude and Longitude have been randomly skewed to represent values within the same block area (but not the exact location) of the incident.* [Cincinnati Fire Department Unit Response](https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/d/hec7-qw4k) - CFD Unit Response Data includes all CFD units (vehicles) that responded to an incident. This dataset provides enhancement to the Cincinnati Fire Incidents (CAD) dataset (https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/Safer-Streets/Cincinnati-Fire-Incidents-CAD-including-EMS-ALS-BL/vnsz-a3wp) in providing the data for each unit responding to a single incident.

The Unit Response data includes runs for all emergency medical services (EMS) calls, fires, rescue incidents, and all other services handled by the Fire Department.

The source of this data is the City of Cincinnati's computer aided dispatch (CAD) database.

All runs are coded according to classification: for EMS, this includes ALS (advanced life support); BLS (basic life support); etc.

This data is updated daily.

DISCLAIMER: In compliance with privacy laws, all Public Safety datasets are anonymized and appropriately redacted prior to publication on the City of Cincinnati’s Open Data Portal. This means that for all public safety datasets: (1) the last two digits of all addresses have been replaced with “XX,” and in cases where there is a single digit street address, the entire address number is replaced with "X"; and (2) Latitude and Longitude have been randomly skewed to represent values within the same block area (but not the exact location) of the incident. 

For datasets related to medical events the address number is removed.* [Untitled Visualization - Based on Street Centerlines (w/ PCI rating)](https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/d/d7q6-dd7x) - City of Cincinnati street center line data, broken out by street segment. Pavement Condition Index (PCI) rating for each street segment is also included. Pavement Condition is assessed annually by the Department of Transportation & Engineering (DOTE).<br /><br />This data is maintained by the Department of Transportation & Engineering, and is refreshed daily.* [Suicides And Attempts](https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/d/w92t-np3h) - Fire Incident data includes all fire incident responses. This includes emergency medical services (EMS) calls, fires, rescue incidents, and all other services handled by the Fire Department.

The source of this data is the City of Cincinnati's computer aided dispatch (CAD) database.

This data is updated daily.

DISCLAIMER: In compliance with privacy laws, all Public Safety datasets are anonymized and appropriately redacted prior to publication on the City of Cincinnati’s Open Data Portal. This means that for all public safety datasets: (1) the last two digits of all addresses have been replaced with “XX,” and in cases where there is a single digit street address, the entire address number is replaced with "X"; and (2) Latitude and Longitude have been randomly skewed to represent values within the same block area (but not the exact location) of the incident.* [Untitled Visualization - Based on Cincinnati Fire Incidents (CAD)](https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/d/m9m2-cnw6) - Fire Incident data includes all fire incident responses. This includes emergency medical services (EMS) calls, fires, rescue incidents, and all other services handled by the Fire Department.<br /><br />The source of this data is the City of Cincinnati's computer aided dispatch (CAD) database.<br /><br />This data is updated daily.<br /><br />DISCLAIMER: In compliance with privacy laws, all Public Safety datasets are anonymized and appropriately redacted prior to publication on the City of Cincinnati’s Open Data Portal. This means that for all public safety datasets: (1) the last two digits of all addresses have been replaced with “XX,” and in cases where there is a single digit street address, the entire address number is replaced with "X"; and (2) Latitude and Longitude have been randomly skewed to represent values within the same block area (but not the exact location) of the incident.* [Untitled Visualization - Based on Cincinnati Fire Incidents (CAD)](https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/d/kfs8-7gff) - Fire Incident data includes all fire incident responses. This includes emergency medical services (EMS) calls, fires, rescue incidents, and all other services handled by the Fire Department.<br /><br />The source of this data is the City of Cincinnati's computer aided dispatch (CAD) database.<br /><br />This data is updated daily.<br /><br />DISCLAIMER: In compliance with privacy laws, all Public Safety datasets are anonymized and appropriately redacted prior to publication on the City of Cincinnati’s Open Data Portal. This means that for all public safety datasets: (1) the last two digits of all addresses have been replaced with “XX,” and in cases where there is a single digit street address, the entire address number is replaced with "X"; and (2) Latitude and Longitude have been randomly skewed to represent values within the same block area (but not the exact location) of the incident.* [Untitled Visualization - Based on Cincinnati Fire Incidents (CAD)](https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/d/56j4-wt4u) - Fire Incident data includes all fire incident responses. This includes emergency medical services (EMS) calls, fires, rescue incidents, and all other services handled by the Fire Department.<br /><br />The source of this data is the City of Cincinnati's computer aided dispatch (CAD) database.<br /><br />This data is updated daily.<br /><br />DISCLAIMER: In compliance with privacy laws, all Public Safety datasets are anonymized and appropriately redacted prior to publication on the City of Cincinnati’s Open Data Portal. This means that for all public safety datasets: (1) the last two digits of all addresses have been replaced with “XX,” and in cases where there is a single digit street address, the entire address number is replaced with "X"; and (2) Latitude and Longitude have been randomly skewed to represent values within the same block area (but not the exact location) of the incident.* [City of Cincinnati- Residential Tax Abatements](https://data.cincinnati-oh.gov/d/6ck4-ukva) - Residential Tax Abatements (CRAs) are designed to make it possible for property owners to minimize the taxes they pay while still owning their homes. The Abatement allows owners to pay taxes on the pre-improvement value of their property for 10-15 years. Property tax abatement is available for any increased valuation that results from improvements to the property for new construction and renovation.

This data includes address of residential abatement; neighborhood; LEED date and class (for properties that meet Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design standards), permit and application dates; county certification date (when available + applicable); incentive amount; construction type; and ownership type.

Note: Incentive values are estimates only.

This data is updated daily.