# data.cityofchicago.org health datasets
* [Performance Metrics - Family & Support Services - Senior Services Nutrition Monthly Utilization](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/2cn6-nmx6) - This metric tracks the number of congregate and home delivered meals provided to seniors per month. DFSS, Senior Services division is the city’s Area Agency on Aging for older adults. DFSS offers a wide variety of programs and services that address the diverse needs and interests of older adults in Chicago from those who are healthy and active to those who are frail and homebound. The Congregate Dining Program strengthens social relationships while addressing the problem of poor nutrition among older adults. Each day Senior Services provides seniors with opportunities for nutritious meals, socialization, recreation, education and volunteer activities through approximately 60 co-sponsored congregate dining sites which annually serve over 20,000 senior residents. DFSS also provides over 11,000 frail homebound older adults with hot home delivered meals five days a week.
* [CTA - Performance - Unscheduled Days Off](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/spus-59r8) - This report shows unscheduled absences for bargained for employees in the CTA’s Rail and Bus divisions. Unscheduled absences reflected in this report include Sick, FMLA, IOD, and AWOLs only. It no longer includes Suspensions, which were included in earlier reports.
* [Flu Shot Locations - 2014 - Present](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/w3hg-pyhz) - List of free flu clinics offered throughout Chicago, either by the Department of Public Health or in collaboration with it. Unlike older versions of the flu shot datasets, this one combines multiple years and will grow over the years. Seasons are now identified by the years they span (e.g., 2018-2019) instead of the year in which they begin (e.g., 2018). Each season has a filtered view showing only records from that season. These filtered views can be used for almost all purposes as if they were datasets. This dataset approximately follows https://github.com/codeforamerica/flu-shot-spec/blob/master/data-format.csv and is designed for use by https://github.com/tkompare/chicagoflushots. For more information about the flu, go to https://www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/depts/cdph/provdrs/flu.html.
* [Individual Landmarks](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/tdab-kixi) - This dataset is a list of individual Chicago Landmarks designated by City Council upon recommendation of the Commission on Chicago Landmarks. It contains the name of each landmark property along with the date of its construction (if known), the name of its architect/designer (if known), and the date of Chicago Landmark designation. Additional information about each individual Chicago Landmark can be found on the Chicago Landmarks home page at http://j.mp/lRJVnh. Properties which have been proposed for landmark designation by the Commission on Chicago Landmarks and remain under consideration are not included. This information is for illustrative purposes only; the legal descriptions are as identified by the respective landmark designation ordinances. A dataset containing Chicago Landmark Districts is available separately. Data updated quarterly.
* [Food Inspections - Map](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/cnfp-tsxc) - This information is derived from inspections of restaurants and other food establishments in Chicago from January 1, 2010 to the present. Inspections are performed by staff from the Chicago Department of Public Health’s Food Protection Program using a standardized procedure. The results of the inspection are inputted into a database, then reviewed and approved by a State of Illinois Licensed Environmental Health Practitioner (LEHP). For descriptions of the data elements included in this set, go to http://bit.ly/tS9IE8 Disclaimer: Attempts have been made to minimize any and all duplicate inspection reports. However, the dataset may still contain such duplicates and the appropriate precautions should be exercised when viewing or analyzing these data. The result of the inspections (pass, pass with conditions or fail) as well as the violations noted are based on the findings identified and reported by the inspector at the time of the inspection, and may not reflect the findings noted at other times. For more information about Food Inspections, go to http://bit.ly/tD91Sb. Data Owner: Chicago Department of Public Health. Time Period: 2010 - Present. Frequency: Data is updated weekly.
* [Public Health Statistics- Life Expectancy By Race Ethnicity](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/3qdj-cqb8) - This dataset gives the average life expectancy and corresponding confidence intervals for sex and racial-ethnic groups in Chicago for the years 1990, 2000 and 2010. See the full description at: https://data.cityofchicago.org/api/views/3qdj-cqb8/files/pJ3PVVyubnsS2SpGO5P5IOPtNgCJZTE3LNOeLagC3mw?download=true&filename=P:\EPI\OEPHI\MATERIALS\REFERENCES\Life Expectancy\Dataset description_LE_ Sex_Race_Ethnicity.pdf
* [Public Health Statistics- Diabetes hospitalizations in Chicago, 2000 - 2011](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/vekt-28b5) - This dataset contains the annual number of hospital discharges, crude hospitalization rates with corresponding 95% confidence intervals, and age-adjusted hospitalization rates with corresponding 95% confidence intervals, for the years 2000 – 2011, by Chicago U.S. Postal Service ZIP code or ZIP code aggregate. See the full description at http://bit.ly/Os5wnn.
* [Food Inspections - Dashboard](https://data.cityofchicago.org/view/2bnm-jnvb) - <div>This information is derived from inspections of restaurants and other food establishments in Chicago from January 1, 2010 to the present. Inspections are performed by staff from the Chicago Department of Public Health’s Food Protection Program using a standardized procedure. The results of the inspection are inputted into a database, then reviewed and approved by a State of Illinois Licensed Environmental Health Practitioner (LEHP). For descriptions of the data elements included in this set, go to http://bit.ly/tS9IE8 Disclaimer: &nbsp;Attempts have been made to minimize any and all duplicate inspection reports. However, the dataset may still contain such duplicates and the appropriate precautions should be exercised when viewing or analyzing these data. The result of the inspections (pass, pass with conditions or fail) as well as the violations noted are based on the findings identified and reported by the inspector at the time of the inspection, and may not reflect the findings noted at other times. For more information about Food Inspections, go to http://bit.ly/tD91Sb.<br></div>
* [Public Health Statistics - Asthma hospitalizations in Chicago, by year, 2000 - 2011](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/vazh-t57q) - This dataset contains the annual number of hospital discharges, crude hospitalization rates with corresponding 95% confidence intervals, and age-adjusted hospitalization rates (per 10,000 children and adults aged 5 to 64 years) with corresponding 95% confidence intervals, for the years 2000 – 2011, by Chicago U.S. Postal Service ZIP code or ZIP code aggregate. See the full dataset description for more information at http://bit.ly/PKI8p0.
* [Landmark Districts](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/zidz-sdfj) - This dataset is a list of Chicago Landmark Districts designated by City Council upon recommendation of the Commission on Chicago Landmarks. It contains the name of each Chicago Landmark District along with the date of its designation. Additional information about each Chicago Landmark District, including district maps, is available on the Chicago Landmarks home page at http://j.mp/lRJVnh. Districts which have been proposed for landmark designation by the Commission on Chicago Landmarks and remain under consideration are not included. This information is for illustrative purposes only; the legal boundaries are as identified by the respective landmark designation ordinances. A data set containing Individual Chicago Landmarks is available separately. Go to http://j.mp/m7t5nB to access the related GIS layer files. You will need compression software and special software, such as ESRI ArcGIS, to use the GIS files.
* [CDPH Storage Tanks](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/ug5u-hxnx) - This dataset contains Aboveground Storage Tank (AST) and Underground Storage Tank (UST) information from the Department of Public Health’s (CDPH) Tank Asset Database. The Tank Asset Database contains tank information from CDPH AST and UST permit applications as well as UST records imported from the historic Department of Environment (DOE) database. This dataset also includes AST records from the historic DOE and pre-1992 UST records from the Building Department. Data fields requiring description are detailed below. MAPPED LOCATION: Contains latitude/longitude coordinates of the site as determined through the Chicago Open Data Portal’s geocoding engine. In instances where the facility address is a range, the lower number (the value in the “Street Number From” column) is used for geocoding. For example, for the range address 1000-1005 S Wabash Ave, the Mapped Location would be the coordinates for 1000 S Wabash Ave. TANK TYPE: Specifies if the asset is an Underground Storage Tank or an Aboveground Storage Tank. FACILITY ID: This is the unique identifier of the facility. A UST Facility ID that is seven digits long and begins with the number ‘2’ is a Facility ID assigned by the Office of the State Fire Marshall (OSFM). All other IDs were assigned by the DOE or CDPH based on the facility address. OWNER: The owner of record for the tank. For State-regulated USTs, this is the owner registered with the OSFM. FACILITY NAME: This is the name given to the facility. This is usually the company/owner name, building name or address. TANK ID: This is a numeric ID that uniquely identifies a particular tank at the facility. TANK MATERIAL: Specifies the type of material the tank is made of. TANK PRODUCT: Specifies the type of product stored in the tank. TANK CAPACITY: This is the storage volume of the tank in gallons. INSTALLATION DATE: The date the tank was installed at the facility if known. For some records, this information is in the COMMENTS column. REMOVAL DATE: The date the tank was removed from the facility if known. For some records, this information is in the COMMENTS column. LAST USED DATE: The date the tank was last in service if known. For some records, this information is in the COMMENTS column. COMMENT: Contains additional information on the tank that may include supplemental location information; field observations; removal, abandonment, or last used dates; permitting notes; and other miscellaneous information. DATA SOURCE: The city department that collected the data.
