# data.marincounty.org health datasets
* [Street Pavement Condition Website](https://data.marincounty.org/d/ajk8-qjcj) - Maps, charts and data showing street pavement conditions, using a standardized measure called Pavement Condition Index (PCI).  Covers select-able Counties and Cities throughout the nine County San Francisco Bay Area, including the County of Marin.* [EMS Bicycle Accidents, Street Intersection Recorded Addresses, Point Map](https://data.marincounty.org/d/wn9z-4ny7) - Emergency Medical Service ambulance dispatch incidents in Marin County, CA, for the period beginning March 1, 2013 through December 31, 2016.  Data is updated quarterly.  Data includes time stamps of events for each dispatch, nature of injury, and location of injury.  Data also includes geocoding of most incident locations, however, specific street address locations are "obfuscated" and are generally shown within a block and are not, therefore, exact locations.  Geocoding results are also based on the quality of the address information provided, and should therefore not be considered 100% accurate.

Some of the data may be interpreted incorrectly without adequate knowledge of the clinical context.  Please contact EMS@marincounty.org if you have any questions about the interpretation of fields in this dataset.* [Kindergarten Immunization Types](https://data.marincounty.org/d/mttd-ggk4) - Kindergarten Immunizations for each school and academic year in Marin County, for four consecutive academic years through 2016-2017. Data includes Personal Belief Exemption statistics, specific immunizations and school performance indicators.

Note: As of 5/10/2017 this is a newer version of this dataset.  Its data structure has been improved to facilitate better analysis, and mapping.* [Primary Injury of EMS Incidents among Older Adults 60+, 2016](https://data.marincounty.org/d/wgt7-kve3) - Emergency Medical Service ambulance dispatch incidents in Marin County, CA, for the period beginning March 1, 2013 through June 30, 2017.  Data is updated quarterly.  Data includes time stamps of events for each dispatch, nature of injury, and location of injury.  Data also includes geocoding of most incident locations, however, specific street address locations are "obfuscated" and are generally shown within a block and are not, therefore, exact locations.  Geocoding results are also based on the quality of the address information provided, and should therefore not be considered 100% accurate.

Some of the data may be interpreted incorrectly without adequate knowledge of the clinical context.  Please contact EMS@marincounty.org if you have any questions about the interpretation of fields in this dataset.* [EMS Bicycle Accidents (greater than 10) by City Bar Chart](https://data.marincounty.org/d/8cbt-nsbx) - Emergency Medical Service ambulance dispatch incidents in Marin County, CA, for the period beginning March 1, 2013 through December 31, 2016.  Data is updated quarterly.  Data includes time stamps of events for each dispatch, nature of injury, and location of injury.  Data also includes geocoding of most incident locations, however, specific street address locations are "obfuscated" and are generally shown within a block and are not, therefore, exact locations.  Geocoding results are also based on the quality of the address information provided, and should therefore not be considered 100% accurate.

Some of the data may be interpreted incorrectly without adequate knowledge of the clinical context.  Please contact EMS@marincounty.org if you have any questions about the interpretation of fields in this dataset.* [EMS Bicycle Accident Incidents, as of 2014, Point Map](https://data.marincounty.org/d/f3hq-gnq4) - * [Kindergarten Immunizations](https://data.marincounty.org/d/36mh-bv7v) - Kindergarten Immunizations for each school and academic year in Marin County, for four consecutive academic years through 2016-2017. Data includes Personal Belief Exemption statistics, specific immunizations and school performance indicators.

Note: As of 5/10/2017 this is a newer version of this dataset.  Its data structure has been improved to facilitate better analysis, and mapping.* [EMS Primary Injury by City Rank-Ordered List](https://data.marincounty.org/d/d4md-9v6z) - Emergency Medical Service ambulance dispatch incidents in Marin County, CA, for the period beginning March 1, 2013 through December 31, 2016.  Data is updated quarterly.  Data includes time stamps of events for each dispatch, nature of injury, and location of injury.  Data also includes geocoding of most incident locations, however, specific street address locations are "obfuscated" and are generally shown within a block and are not, therefore, exact locations.  Geocoding results are also based on the quality of the address information provided, and should therefore not be considered 100% accurate.

Some of the data may be interpreted incorrectly without adequate knowledge of the clinical context.  Please contact EMS@marincounty.org if you have any questions about the interpretation of fields in this dataset.* [EMS Incidents Over 60](https://data.marincounty.org/d/jpt8-h22e) - Emergency Medical Service ambulance dispatch incidents in Marin County, CA, for the period beginning March 1, 2013 through June 30, 2017.  Data is updated quarterly.  Data includes time stamps of events for each dispatch, nature of injury, and location of injury.  Data also includes geocoding of most incident locations, however, specific street address locations are "obfuscated" and are generally shown within a block and are not, therefore, exact locations.  Geocoding results are also based on the quality of the address information provided, and should therefore not be considered 100% accurate.

Some of the data may be interpreted incorrectly without adequate knowledge of the clinical context.  Please contact EMS@marincounty.org if you have any questions about the interpretation of fields in this dataset.* [EMS Incidents with Primary Injury Fall among 60+, 2016](https://data.marincounty.org/d/nyr6-n2uy) - Emergency Medical Service ambulance dispatch incidents in Marin County, CA, for the period beginning March 1, 2013 through June 30, 2017.  Data is updated quarterly.  Data includes time stamps of events for each dispatch, nature of injury, and location of injury.  Data also includes geocoding of most incident locations, however, specific street address locations are "obfuscated" and are generally shown within a block and are not, therefore, exact locations.  Geocoding results are also based on the quality of the address information provided, and should therefore not be considered 100% accurate.

Some of the data may be interpreted incorrectly without adequate knowledge of the clinical context.  Please contact EMS@marincounty.org if you have any questions about the interpretation of fields in this dataset.* [Kindergarten Immunization Types_FINAL](https://data.marincounty.org/d/nvw4-5jd9) - Kindergarten Immunizations for each school and academic year in Marin County, for four consecutive academic years through 2016-2017. Data includes Personal Belief Exemption statistics, specific immunizations and school performance indicators.

Note: As of 5/10/2017 this is a newer version of this dataset.  Its data structure has been improved to facilitate better analysis, and mapping.