# data.cambridgema.gov health datasets
* [Development Log Current Edition Project Use Data Map](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/n2h4-yabd) - The Development Log provides an record of large-scale development projects occurring in the City of Cambridge. The Log, updated on a quarterly basis, is distributed to City departments and the public to keep them posted about development progress, from permitting through construction to completion. This table includes data about each specific use found within each project. A separate Development Log table includes general project information, such as development status and statistics related to the entire project.

Disclaimer: All information that is presented here is accurate to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. All information stated is subject to revision or retraction at any time.* [City Council Roll Call Votes 2018-2019](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/3g59-fvq4) - The dataset contains vote results for all City Council agenda items in which a roll call vote was taken, starting in January of 2018. 

The Cambridge City Council uses two different voting methods: voice votes and roll call votes. During a voice vote, all those in favor of a motion verbally vote “yes” simultaneously, and then all those opposed vote “no” simultaneously. During a roll call vote, each Councilor votes “yes” or “no” in turn. Voice votes are more common and are not recorded in this dataset. The Council tends to rely on roll call votes for City Manager’s agenda items related to fiscal and budgetary topics (e.g., how much money to allocate to a department or program). Please read the limitations section of this metadata form to avoid misinterpretations of the data. 

To learn more about Council meeting operations, please refer to the Rules of the City Council: http://www.cambridgema.gov/~/media/Files/citycouncil/20162017rulesofthecitycouncil.ashx

To learn more about the parliamentary voting procedures generally, please refer to Robert’s Rules of Order: 
http://www.rulesonline.com/rror-08.htm* [Development Log Historical Projects Use Data 1997 - 2017](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/r5mv-isth) - The Development Log provides a record of large-scale development projects occurring in the City of Cambridge. The Log, updated on a quarterly basis, is distributed to City departments and the public to keep them posted about development progress, from permitting through construction to completion. The Historical Projects Use Data table include information about projects completed prior to 2018. The table includes general project information, such as development status and statistics related to the entire project. Limited information is available about historical projects.

A separate table includes general project information, such as development status and statistics related to the entire project. Find the table here: https://data.cambridgema.gov/Planning/Development-Log-Historical-Projects/aypb-bk5u.

Disclaimer: All information that is presented here is accurate to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. All information stated is subject to revision or retraction at any time.* [Cambridge Public Schools Language Spoken at Home 2014 - 2018](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/vkjy-igvt) - This table includes the results of the Primary Language Is Not English (PLINE) census of Cambridge Public School students taken in early October of every school year.* [Eco-Totem Broadway Bicycle Counts by Date](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/9yzv-hx4u) - The “Eco-Totem” counter (made by the Montreal-based company Eco-Counter) counts cyclists via in-ground loop detectors embedded under the pavement of Broadway near Kendall Square. The device displays on a monitor how many cyclists pass by, and data is transferred daily from the device to Cambridge's Open Data Portal. Funding for this project was generously provided by the Helen & William Mazer Foundation.* [Computer Aided Dispatch Entries 2015- DEPRECATED](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/akku-y4tf) - ***This dataset has been deprecated. Cambridge now maintains a single Computer Aided Dispatch open dataset that includes data from multiple years, including 2015.

The Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) Entries data set reflects information approved for general release by the Cambridge Police Department and the Cambridge Fire Department. All entries are inputted by dispatchers in the Emergency Communications Center (ECC). This data set does not reflect all events received by the ECC. Certain entries are not included due to concerns related to privacy, criminal investigation, or protected data. Additionally, not all entries reflect a dispatched response and some data may reflect a duplicate entry for a specific incident. This dataset does not include any first responder calls related to emergency medical services (EMS), and does not contain all police or fire entries.* [Building Permits: 1 and 2 Family](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/52p4-36ct) - Approved building permits for 1 and 2 family homes. Building permits are issued to licensed construction supervisors and enable recipients to construct, alter, or demolish a structure or install a sign. The building permit must be obtained from Cambridge's Inspectional Services Department before the start of any work and must be prominently posted at the job site. This dataset includes building permits for the construction of renovation of 1 and 2 family homes.* [Building Permits: Commercial and Multi-Family Buildings](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/24a8-ex6a) - Approved building permits for commercial buildings and multifamily homes. The PLANNUMBER column uses "BLDC" to indicate commercial buildings and "BLDM" to indicate multifamily homes. Building permits are issued to licensed construction supervisors and enable recipients to construct, alter, or demolish a structure or install a sign. The building permit must be obtained from Cambridge's Inspectional Services Department before the start of any work and must be prominently posted at the job site. This dataset includes building permits for the construction of renovation of commercial buildings.* [Development Log Current Edition Map](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/7tkb-6nee) - The Development Log provides a record of large-scale development projects occurring in the City of Cambridge. The Log, updated on a quarterly basis, is distributed to City departments and the public to keep them posted about development progress, from permitting through construction to completion. This map includes all projects listed in the current edition of the Log, whose status range from In Permitting to Complete in the current calendar year. 

Since a project may include more than one use, data on each specific use found within a project is found in the associated Development Log Project Use table. 

Disclaimer: All information that is presented here is accurate to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. All information stated is subject to revision or retraction at any time.* [Development Log Current Edition](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/wjwg-93qh) - The Development Log provides a record of large-scale development projects occurring in the City of Cambridge. The Log, updated on a quarterly basis, is distributed to City departments and the public to keep them posted about development progress, from permitting through construction to completion. The table includes general project information, such as development status and statistics related to the entire project. The Current Edition table lists all developments found in the last published edition of the Log, whose status range from In permitting to Complete in the current calendar year. For projects completed in earlier calendar years see https://data.cambridgema.gov/Planning/Development-Log-Historical-Projects-Use-Data/r5mv-isth

Since a project may include more than one use, data on each specific use found within a project is found in the associated Development Log Project Use table. Found here: https://data.cambridgema.gov/Planning/Development-Log-Current-Edition-Project-Use-Data/5nqm-2ns2

Disclaimer: All information that is presented here is accurate to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. All information stated is subject to revision or retraction at any time.* [Dogs of Cambridge](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/sckh-3xyx) - This dataset displays the name, breed, and approximate location of dogs in Cambridge. It is based on dog license data collected by Cambridge's Animal Commission. All locations listed in this dataset have been obscured to protect privacy. Please see the limitations section below for more information.* [Computer Aided Dispatch Entries](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/ppai-cur6) - The Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) Entries data set reflects information approved for general release by the Cambridge Police Department and the Cambridge Fire Department. All entries are inputted by dispatchers in the Emergency Communications Center (ECC). This data set does not reflect all events received by the ECC. Certain entries are not included due to concerns related to privacy, criminal investigation, or protected data. Additionally, not all entries reflect a dispatched response and some data may reflect a duplicate entry for a specific incident. This dataset does not include any first responder calls related to emergency medical services (EMS), and does not contain all police or fire entries.* [Eco-Totem Broadway Bicycle Count](https://data.cambridgema.gov/d/q8v9-mcfg) - The “Eco-Totem” counter (made by the Montreal-based company Eco-Counter) counts cyclists via in-ground loop detectors embedded under the pavement of Broadway near Kendall Square. The device displays on a monitor how many cyclists pass by, and data is transferred daily from the device to Cambridge's Open Data Portal. Funding for this project was generously provided by the Helen & William Mazer Foundation.