# data.cityofnewyork.us health datasets
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales for Brooklyn for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2009](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/nbun-a9vi) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Brooklyn in 2009. Update Frequency: Annually
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales in Manhattan for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2008](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/7s3q-rztu) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Manhattan in 2008. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2008 to December 31, 2008, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale. Update Frequency: Annually
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales in Queens for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2007](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/hcv4-fhfs) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Queens in 2007. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2007 to December 31, 2007, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale. Update Schedule: Annually
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales in the Bronx for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2008](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/h4jy-7dv7) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in the Bronx in 2008. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2008 to December 31, 2008, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale.
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales in Queens for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2008](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/aa5u-mys6) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Queens in 2008. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2008 to December 31, 2008, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale. Update Schedule: Annually
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales for the Bronx for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2009](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/w4v6-3sdt) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in the Bronx in 2009. Update Schedule: Annually
* [DOHMH HIV Service Directory](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/pwts-g83w) - This directory is for at-risk for HIV and eligible persons living with HIV in New York City seeking HIV medical and supportive services. The agencies and their listed programs receive CDC and Ryan White Part-A funding to provide: Targeted-Testing among Priority Populations, Food and Nutrition Services, Health Education and Risk Reduction Services, Harm Reduction Services, Legal Services, Mental Health Services, Case Management and Care Coordination Services, and Supportive Counseling Services. To be eligible to recieve these services, prospective clients must: 1)be HIV-positive; 2) have a total household income below 435% of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL) (this is the same as the income eligible guidelines for the New York State AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) and higher than the income eligiblity guidelines for Medicaid in New York State); and 3) reside in New York City or the counties of Westchester, Rockland, and Putnam. For providers, to make a referral, please contact the program directly using the information provided in the diretory (please be sure to call before directing clients to the program). When making a referral, you may also find it useful to talk to your client about executing a release of information form authorizing you to share confidential health and HIV-related information with another service provider in order to coordinate care (for more information, go to https://www.health.ny.gov/diseases/aids/providers/forms/informedconsent.htm).
* [Demographic Profiles of ACS 5 Year Estimates at the New York City and Borough Level](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/u42x-c94z) - Four tables of ACS demographic profiles for 2012 to 2016 at the New York City and Borough level. Four profiles include demographics,economic, housing and sociological.
* [Demographic Profiles of ACS 5 Year Estimates at the Public Use Microdata Areas (PUMA) Level](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/8fje-7v4x) - Four tables of ACS demographic profiles for 2012 to 2016 at the PUMA level. Four profiles include demographics, economic, housing and sociological. Column headers in this database are abbreviated. Please see the data dictionary (shown in worksheet entitled “Dictionary”) for an explanation of these abbreviated headers.
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales in Queens for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2005](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/7fnf-kyf4) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Queens in 2005. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2005 to December 31, 2005, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the
* [Local Law 14 Health Data - HS School](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/6kks-jijx) - """Local Law 14 (2016) requires that the NYCDOE provide citywide Health Education data, dis aggregated by community school district, city council district, and each individual school. Data reported in this report is from the 2015-16 school year. "" This report provides information about the number and percent of students receiving one semester of health education as defined in Local Law 14 as reported through the 2015-2016 STARS database. It is important to note that schools self-report their scheduling information in STARS. This report consists of 10 tabs: 1.   Health Education Standards 2.   HS - School 3.   HS-District 4.   JS-City Council District 5.   MS-School 6. MS-District 7. Ms-City Council District 8. Efficacy 9. Compliance 10. LGBTQ Inclusivity 1. Health Education Standards This tab provides information on the New York State Health Education Requirements and Standards. These requirements can be found in NYS Education Commissioner’s Regulation Subchapter G Part 135. 2. HS - School This tab includes school level data on the number of students that received a semester (one credit) of health instruction, as well as the number of June and August graduates meeting the HS health requirements for the 2015-2016 school year. Note that students are not required to receive health instruction at any particular grade level in high school, only prior to graduating. Additionally, values less than 100% do not necessarily imply that students graduated without meeting credit requirements. In very rare cases, these values may indicate missing or incomplete historical transcript data. 3. HS - District This tab includes district level data on the number of students that received a semester (one credit) of health instruction, as well as the number of June and August graduates meeting the HS health requirements for the 2015-2016 school year. Note that students are not required to receive health instruction at any particular grade level in high school, only prior to graduating. Additionally, values less than 100% do not necessarily imply that students graduated without meeting credit requirements. In very rare cases, these values may indicate missing or incomplete historical transcript data. 4. HS - City Council District This tab includes city council district level data on the number of students that received a semester (one credit) of health instruction, as well as the number of June and August graduates meeting the HS health requirements for the 2015-2016 school year. Note that students are not required to receive health instruction at any particular grade level in high school, only prior to graduating. Additionally, values less than 100% do not necessarily imply that students graduated without meeting credit requirements. In very rare cases, these values may indicate missing or incomplete historical transcript data. 5. Ms - School This tab includes school level data on the number of 6-8 graders that received a semester (one half-unit) of health instruction, as well as the number of 8th graders meeting the middle school health requirements for the 2015-2016 school year. Note that this regulation does not require students to receive health instruction at any particular grade level in middle school, only prior to completing 8th grade. However, a student may advance to the next grade without completing the course. 6. MS - District This tab includes district level data on the number of 6-8 graders that received a semester (one half-unit) of health instruction, as well as the number of 8th graders meeting the middle school health requirements for the 2015-2016 school year. Note that this regulation does not require students to receive health instruction at any particular grade level in middle school, only prior to completing 8th grade. However, a student may advance to the next grade without completing the course. 7. MS - City Council District This tab includes Cit
* [Broadway Curb Cut Survey Data](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/4y9q-t4wb) - 
* [DSNY Disposal Vendors](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/8tt5-asjf) - The vendors used to discard various materials (refuse, paper, metal/glass/plastic, organics, construction & demolition) collected by DSNY.
* [2015 2016 EMS Transports Final 6 Months](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/87hk-978a) - Annual Report on EMS Transports
* [2006-07 School Progress Reports - All Schools](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/fzv4-jan3) - 2006/07 Progress Report results for all schools (data as of 1/14/09) Peer indices are calculated differently depending on School Level. Schools are only compared to other schools in the same School Level (e.g., Elementary, K-8, Middle, High) 1) Elementary & K-8 - peer index is a value from 0-100. We use a composite demographic statistic based on % ELL, % SpEd, % Title I free lunch, and % Black/Hispanic. Higher values indicate student populations with higher need 2) Middle & High - peer index is a value from 1.00-4.50. For middle schools, we use the average 4th grade proficiency ratings in ELA and Math for all their students that have 4th grade test scores. For high schools, we use the average 8th grade proficiency ratings in ELA and Math for all their students that have 8th grade test scores. Lower values indicate student populations with higher need 3) D84 / Charter Schools - the overall score does not include the results of the learning environment survey. 4) Schools for Transfer Students - consists of schools with large populations of high school students transferring from NYC High Schools or from out of state/country. No peer index value is assigned because this set of schools is its own peer group. The reports contain 3 categories with one additional credit section. Unlike the HS Progress Report, the Environment Category is only composed of Survey Results. Performance measures 6-year graduation rate and Progress captures student level improvements in attendance, credit accumulation and Regents passed. The additional credit section rewards schools demonstrating exceptional achievement (11 credits or more earned per year) among overage/under-credit populations.
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales for Staten Island for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2009](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/ntbr-wib6) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Staten Island in 2009. Update Schedule: Annually
* [2001 Manhattan Orthoimagery Tile Index](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/d2bw-3fid) - This 2001 Manhattan Orthoimagery Tile Index file can be used to geo-reference the individual image tiles across the City. This tile index is used in conjunction with the 2001 Manhattan Orthoimagery download (https://data.cityofnewyork.us/City-Government/2001-Orthoimagery-Manhattan/mx2v-5myb)
* [DOHMH Tuberculosis Surveillance: Data from the Tuberculosis Control Annual Summary](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/ax85-bzte) - Tuberculosis cases and rates by select characteristics table (1900-2016) from the Tuberculosis Control Annual Summary
* [2007 - 2008 School Progress Reports - All Schools](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/dj4e-3xrn) - 2007/08 Progress Report results for all schools (data as of 1/13/09) Peer indices are calculated differently depending on School Level. Schools are only compared to other schools in the same School Level (e.g., Elementary, K-8, Middle, High) 1) Elementary & K-8 - peer index is a value from 0-100. We use a composite demographic statistic based on % ELL, % SpEd, % Title I free lunch, and % Black/Hispanic. Higher values indicate student populations with higher need. 2) Middle & High - peer index is a value from 1.00-4.50. For middle schools, we use the average 4th grade proficiency ratings in ELA and Math for all their students that have 4th grade test scores. For high schools, we use the average 8th grade proficiency ratings in ELA and Math for all their students that have 8th grade test scores, % SpEd, and % Overage. Lower values indicate student populations with higher need. 3) Schools for Transfer Students - peer index is a value from 1.00-4.50. We use the average 8th grade proficiency ratings in ELA and Math for all their students that have 8th grade test scores and the % Overage/Under credited. Lower values indicate student populations with higher need. Unlike Elementary, Middle, and High School Progress Reports, the Environment Category is only composed of Survey Results.
* [2018 Kindergarten Directory - Bronx](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/m64b-i6yz) - Bronx 2018 Kindergarten Directory
* [DSNY Frequencies](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/gyhq-r8du) - Citywide DSNY frequency boundaries for collection operation (refuse, recycling, organics, bulk items). These boundaries are sub-divisions of DSNY sections. http://services.arcgis.com/uKN48PkxmWiqJM9q/arcgis/rest/services/DSNY_Frequencies_OFFICIAL/FeatureServer
* [2015-2016 Physical Education - PE Instruction - District Level](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/arzb-yfdv) - Background, Methodology: Local Law 102 enacted in 2015 requires the Department of Education of the New York City School District to submit to the Council an annual report concerning physical education for the prior school year. This report provides information about average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education as defined in Local Law 102 as reported through the 2015-2016 STARS database. It is important to note that schools self-report their scheduling information in STARS. The report also includes information regarding the number and ratio of certified physical education instructors and designated physical education instructional space. This report consists of six tabs: 1. PE Instruction Borough-Level 2. PE Instruction District-Level 3. PE Instruction School-Level 4. Certified PE Teachers 5. PE Space 6. Supplemental Programs 1. PE Instruction Borough-Level This tab includes the average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education by borough, disaggregated by grade, race and ethnicity, gender, special education status and English language learner status. This report only includes students who were enrolled in the same school across all academic terms in the 2015-16 school year. Data on students with disabilities and English language learners are as of the end of the 2015-16 school year. Data on adaptive PE is based on individualized education programs (IEP) finalized on or before 05/31/2016. 2. PE Instruction District-Level This tab includes the average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education by district, disaggregated by grade, race and ethnicity, gender, special education status and English language learner status. This report only includes students who were enrolled in the same school across all academic terms in the 2015-16 school year. Data on students with disabilities and English language learners are as of the end of the 2015-16 school year. Data on adaptive PE is based on individualized education programs (IEP) finalized on or before 05/31/2016. 3. PE Instruction School-Level This tab includes the average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education by school, disaggregated by grade, race and ethnicity, gender, special education status and English language learner status. This report only includes students who were enrolled in the same school across all academic terms in the 2015-16 school year. Data on students with disabilities and English language learners are as of the end of the 2015-16 school year. Data on adaptive PE is based on individualized education programs (IEP) finalized on or before 05/31/2016. 4. Certified PE Teachers This tab provides the number of designated full-time and part-time physical education certified instructors. Does not include elementary, early childhood and K-8 physical education teachers that provide physical education instruction under a common branches license. Also includes ratio of full time instructors teaching in a physical education license to students by school. Data reported is for the 2015-2016 school year as of 10/31/2015. 5. PE Space This tab provides information on all designated indoor, outdoor and off-site spaces used by the school for physical education as reported through the Principal Annual Space Survey and the Outdoor Yard Report. It is important to note that information on each room category is self-reported by principals, and principals determine how each room is classified. Data captures if the PE space is co-located, used by another school or used for another purpose. Includes gyms, athletic fields, auxiliary exercise spaces, dance rooms, field houses, multipurpose spaces, outdoor yards, off-site locations, playrooms, swimming pools and weight rooms as designated PE Space. 6. Supplemental Programs This tab provides information on the department's supplemental physical education
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales for Queens for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2009](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/948r-3ads) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Queens in 2009. Update Schedule: Annually
* [Adult family health plus levels](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/2enn-s52j) - This table represents details of Family Health Plus insurance program. Family Health Plus is a public health insurance program for adults between the ages of 19 and 64 who do not have health insurance - either on their own or through their employers - but have incomes too high to qualify for Medicaid. The Family Health Plus Premium Assistance Program is available to help eligible lower-income employees and their families participate in their employer’s health insurance plan.
* [2018 Kindergarten Directory - Queens](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/dsmz-77k9) - 2018 Queens Kindergarten Directory
* [Medicaid buy in program income levels](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/qt67-786k) - The Medicaid Buy-In Program for Working People with Disabilities offers people with disabilities who are working, and earning more than the allowable limits for regular Medicaid, the opportunity to keep their health care coverage through Medicaid. Eligibility requirements include certain criteria and income levels as listed here. This chart is only a guide. Individuals should see an enrollment counselor for eligibility screening. NOTE: Chart effective January 1, 2012; subject to annual income updates.
* [DSNY Districts With Disposal Vendor Assignments](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/47te-ez55) - The vendors used to discard various materials (refuse, paper, metal/glass/plastic, bulk metal, and organics) collected in DSNY districts.
* [Watershed Water Quality Data](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/y43c-5n92) - Data collected to fulfill the requirements of the SWTR (Surface Water Treatment Rule) and FAD (Filtration Avoidance Determination). Data is collected via grab sampling, analysis, LIMS data capture and reporting. Each record represents either a four hour turbidity result, a 24 hour average turbidty result, or a daily fecal coliform result from DEL18DT (Delaware Shaft 18 downtake). Data is used to monitor compliance with the requirements above. There are no limitations for the data.
* [DOHMH Community Health Survey (2010-2016)](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/csut-3wpr) - Summary results from NYC Community Health Survey 2010-2016: adults ages 18 years and older Source: NYC Community Health Survey (CHS) 2010-16. The Community Health Survey (CHS) includes self-reported data from adults, years 18 and older. CHS has included adults with landline phones since 2002 and, starting in 2009, also has included adults who can be reached by cell-phone. Starting in 2011, CHS weighting methods were updated to use Census 2010 and additional demographic characteristics (http://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/epi/epiresearch-chsmethods.pdf ). Data are age-adjusted to the US 2000 Standard Population. Data prepared by Bureau of Epidemiology Services, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene The New York City Community Health Survey (CHS) is a telephone survey conducted annually by the DOHMH, Division of Epidemiology, Bureau of Epidemiology Services. CHS provides robust data on the health of New Yorkers, including neighborhood, borough, and citywide estimates on a broad range of chronic diseases and behavioral risk factors. The data are analyzed and disseminated to influence health program decisions, and increase the understanding of the relationship between health behavior and health status. For more information see EpiQuery, https://a816-healthpsi.nyc.gov/epiquery/CHS/CHSXIndex.html "TARGET POPULATION The target population of the CHS includes non-institutionalized adults aged 18 and older who live in a household with a landline telephone in New York City (the five borough area). Starting in 2009, adults living in households with only cell phones have also been included in the survey. HEALTH TOPICS Most years the CHS includes approximately 125 questions, covering the following health topics: general health status and mental health, health care access, cardiovascular health, diabetes, asthma, immunizations, nutrition and physical activity, smoking, HIV, sexual behavior, alcohol consumption, cancer screening and other health topics. A core group of demographics variables are included every year to facilitate weighting and comparisons among different groups of New Yorkers. SAMPLING The CHS uses a stratified random sample to produce neighborhood and citywide estimates. Neighborhoods are defined using the United Hospital Fund's (UHF) neighborhood designation, which assigns neighborhood based on the ZIP code of the respondent. New ZIP codes have been added since the UHF's were originally defined. There are 42 UHF neighborhoods in NYC. However, to avoid small sample sizes for CHS estimates, UHF estimates are generally collapsed into 34 UHFs/groups. Starting in 2009, a second sample consisting of cell-only households with New York City exchanges was added. This design is non-overlapping because in the cell-only sample, adults living in households with landline telephones were screened out. A computer-assisted telephone interviewing (CATI) system is used to collect the survey data. The CHS sampling frame was constructed with a list of telephone numbers provided by a commercial vendor. Upon agreement to participate in the survey, one adult is randomly selected from the household to complete the interview. Interviewing is conducted in a variety of languages. Every year, the questionnaire is translated from English into Spanish, Russian, and Chinese. Some years, live translation services are provided by Language Line (including Hindi, Arabic, Farsi, and Haitian Creole). Typically, data collection begins in March of the study year and ends in December. The average length of the survey is 25 minutes. LIMITATIONS The survey sampling methodology does not capture the following groups: households without any telephone service and (prior to 2009) households that only have a cell phone. The CHS also excludes adults living in institutional group housing, such as college dormitories. "
* [New York City Work and Family Leave Survey (WFLS) 2014](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/grnn-mvqe) - The New York City Work and Family Leave Survey (WFLS), conducted in March 2016, was a telephone survey of New York City residents who gave birth in 2014. Its goal was to improve understanding about the availability and accessibility of paid family leave to working parents. The WFLS also sought to describe the role that paid family leave policies play in achieving health equity for parents and children. The WFLS was made possible through funding by the U.S. Department of Labor Women’s Bureau.
* [EMS Incident Dispatch Data](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/76xm-jjuj) - The EMS Incident Dispatch Data file contains data that is generated by the EMS Computer Aided Dispatch System. The data spans from the time the incident is created in the system to the time the incident is closed in the system. It covers information about the incident as it relates to the assignment of resources and the Fire Department’s response to the emergency. To protect personal identifying information in accordance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), specific locations of incidents are not included and have been aggregated to a higher level of detail.
* [2015 2016 EMS Transports Final Student Date Of Birth](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/4snd-in5m) - EMS Transports by Student Date of Birth
* [Senate District Breakdowns](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/uv67-wxba) - Demographic statistics broken down by senate districts
* [Incidents Responded to by Fire Companies](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/tm6d-hbzd) - This dataset contains detailed information on incidents handled by FDNY Fire (non-EMS) units and includes fire, medical and non-fire emergencies. The data is collected in the New York Fire Incident Reporting System (NYFIRS), which is structured by the FDNY to provide data to the National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS). NFIRS is a modular all-incident reporting system designed by the U.S. Fire Administration. After responding to an incident, FDNY officers complete one or more of the NFIRS modules, depending upon the type of incident. The information in these modules describes the kind of incident responded to, where it occurred, the resources used to mitigate it. Although NFIRS was designed specifically to understand the nature and causes of fire, as well as civilian fire casualties and firefighter injuries, it has been expanded to collect basic information on all incidents to which fire units respond.
* [Street Pavement Rating](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/2cav-chmn) - The New York City Department of Transportation is responsible for keeping the City's streets in good repair. The Agency performs ongoing assessment of New York City streets. Ratings are based on a scale from 1 to 10, and results are grouped in the following categories: Good (%) - ratings of 8 to 10, Fair (%) - ratings of 4 to 7, and Poor (%) - ratings of 1 to 3. This data will allow you to create a map.
* [Untitled Visualization - Based on HIV/AIDS Diagnoses by Neighborhood, Sex, and Race/Ethnicity](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/mbdi-zpep) - This dataset includes data on new diagnoses of HIV and AIDS in NYC for the calendar years 2010 through 2013. Reported cases and case rates (per 100,000 population) are stratified by sex, race/ethnicity, and United Hospital Fund (UHF) neighborhood. For more information, please visit the HIV/AIDS Surveillance Data module on EpiQuery: nyc.gov/health/epiquery
* [2008 - 2009 School Progress Reports - All Schools](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/cgz5-877h) - 2008/09 Progress Report results for all schools (data as of 3/23/2010) Peer indices are calculated differently depending on School Level. Schools are only compared to other schools in the same School Level (e.g., Elementary, K-8, Middle, High, Transfer) 1) Elementary & K-8 - peer index is a value from 0-100. We use a composite demographic statistic based on % ELL, % SpEd, % Title I free lunch, and % Black/Hispanic. Higher values indicate student populations with higher need. 2) Middle & High - peer index is a value from 1.00-4.50. For middle schools, we use the average 4th grade proficiency ratings in ELA and Math for all their students that have 4th grade test scores. For high schools, we use the average 8th grade proficiency ratings in ELA and Math for all their students that have 8th grade test scores, % SpEd, and % Overage. Lower values indicate student populations with higher need.
* [Congress District Breakdowns](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/77d2-9ebr) - Demographic statistics broken down by congress districts
* [DFTA Contracts](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/6j6t-3ixh) - Listing of all Senior Centers, Abuse Prevention Contracts, Home Care Contracts, Legal Services Contracts, NORC Contracts, Transportation Contracts, Case Mangement Contracts, Home Delivered Meal Contracts and Caregiver Contracts in all five boroughs.</p> The Department for the Aging (DFTA) provides a wide array of services specific to the elderly population of New York City. To accomplish this, the department contracts out to organizations (mainly non-profit) to provide these services throughout the five boroughs. The majority of the services provided are through our Neighborhood Senior Centers which provide free meals (mostly lunch, some breakfast and dinner meals) that meet nutritional standards defined by the FDA. DFTA provides this data of our contracted agencies sorted by the contract servivce type. The dataset contains the relevant information for the public to contact the agencies providing the services they may be seeking. The data is limited in that the contract service type does not provide the full scope of services that are provided in detail.
* [Communicable Disease Surveillance Data](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/gff2-veif) - Surveillance data for 10 communicable diseases reported to the Bureau of Communicable Disease of the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH). Data are derived from reports filed with DOHMH by laboratories and health care providers as required by Section 11.03 of the NYC Health Code. For more information, please visit the Communicable Disease Surveillance Data module on EpiQuery: nyc.gov/health/epiquery. *Data are current as of September 19, 2017.* Acute hepatitis B: <a href="http://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/health/health-topics/hepatitis-b.page">Click here for more information about acute hepatitis B</a> Chronic hepatitis C: When interpreting New York City's chronic hepatitis C surveillance data, keep the following in mind: • Laboratories are required to report hepatitis C test results to the Health Department, including positive results for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (EIA) antibody tests, and positive and negative RNA tests (e.g., polymerase chain reaction [PCR] tests). • Many patients with chronic hepatitis C are asymptomatic; as a result, many cases are not diagnosed and reported. These data, therefore, do not represent the true prevalence of chronic hepatitis C in New York City. • The 2016 data represent people who meet the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists’ (CDC/CSTE) <a href="https://wwwn.cdc.gov/nndss/conditions/hepatitis-c-chronic/case-definition/2016/">case definition</a> for confirmed or probable chronic hepatitis C. CDC/CSTE case definitions for prior years are available from the <a href="https://wwwn.cdc.gov/nndss/conditions/hepatitis-c-chronic/">CDC website</a>. Individuals may have a positive antibody test and no longer have the virus (having cured or cleared the infection), but are included in the data here. • The Health Department often receives more than one report for each person with chronic hepatitis C and uses automatic de-duplication methods to identify repeat reports based on name, date of birth, and other information. Only the first report is counted in the data presented here. • The Health Department’s de-duplication methods are imperfect. As a result, some people inadvertently might be counted more than once (e.g., if there is a name or birth date discrepancy), resulting in an overestimation of the number of people with chronic hepatitis C. • Rates presented are the rates of people newly reported with chronic hepatitis C and are not prevalence rates or incidence rates. • The data include positive hepatitis C results reported to the Health Department for the first time with a hepatitis C diagnosis date (or specimen collection date) in the specified calendar year. • The Health Department does not routinely investigate hepatitis C reports because of the large volume; therefore, it is difficult to determine when people with chronic hepatitis C were first infected; most were probably infected a while ago. <a href="http://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/health/health-topics/hepatitis-c.page">Click here for more information about chronic hepatitis C</a> <a href="https://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/data/data-sets/hepatitis-abc-surveillance-data.page">View the most recent New York City Hepatitis B and C Annual Report</a> Cryptosporidiosis: <a href="http://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/health/health-topics/cryptosporidiosis.page">Click here for more information about cryptosporidiosis</a> Legionellosis: Only confirmed cases are included in surveillance data. Confirmed cases include those with clinically compatible illness and (1) culture isolation of any <i>Legionella</i> organism from respiratory secretions, lung tissue, pleural fluid, or other normally sterile fluid; OR (2) seroconversion indicating a 4-fold or greater rise in specific serum antibody titer to <i>Legionella pneumophila</i> serogroup 1 using validated reagents; OR (3) the presence of <i>L. pneumophila</i> serogroup 1 antigen in urine. Prior to January 2006, case
* [DOHMH Childcare Center Inspections](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/dsg6-ifza) - Dataset contains information on center-based child care and summer camp sites and inspections related to the sites.
* [Rodent Inspection](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/p937-wjvj) - Dataset contains information on rat inspections. Rat Information Portal Data Release Notes April 20, 2015 The Rat Information Portal (RIP) is a web-based mapping application where users can view rat inspection data. Data sources: NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH), Division of Environmental Health Pest Control Database Notes on data limitations: Please note that if a property/taxlot does not appear in the file, that does not indicate an absence of rats - rather just that it has not been inspected. Similarly, neighborhoods with higher rates of active rat signs may not actually have higher rat populations but simply have more inspections. See our Data Disclaimer: http://www.nyc.gov/html/doh/html/environmental/disclaimer.shtml
* [2005 - 2017 School Quality Review Ratings](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/9n9z-hh9p) - Yearly data of Quality Review ratings from 2005 to 2017
* [Facilities Database - Shapefile](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/2fpa-bnsx) - The City Planning Facilities Database (FacDB) aggregates information about 35,000+ public and private facilities and program sites that are owned, operated, funded, licensed or certified by a City, State, or Federal agency in the City of New York. It captures facilities that generally help to shape quality of life in the city’s neighborhoods, including schools, day cares, parks, libraries, public safety services, youth programs, community centers, health clinics, workforce development programs, transitional housing, and solid waste and transportation infrastructure sites. To facilitate analysis and mapping, the data is available in coma-separated values (CSV) file format, ESRI Shapefile, and GeoJSon. The data is also complemented with a new interactive web map that enables users to easily filter the data for their needs. Users are strongly encouraged to read the database documentation, particularly with regard to analytical limitations.
* [NYC Health and Hospitals Corporation Facilities](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/ymhw-9cz9) - This is a list of the 11 acute care hospitals, four skilled nursing facilities, six large diagnostic and treatment centers and community-based clinics that make up the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, NYC's public hospital system. HHC is a $6.7 billion integrated healthcare delivery system which serves 1.3 million New Yorkers every year and more than 450,000 are uninsured. It provides medical, mental health and substance abuse services. Update Frequency: As needed
* [DOHMH New York City Restaurant Inspection Results](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/43nn-pn8j) - The dataset contains every sustained or not yet adjudicated violation citation from every full or special program inspection conducted up to three years prior to the most recent inspection for restaurants and college cafeterias in an active status on the RECORD DATE (date of the data pull). When an inspection results in more than one violation, values for associated fields are repeated for each additional violation record. Establishments are uniquely identified by their CAMIS (record ID) number. Keep in mind that thousands of restaurants start business and go out of business every year; only restaurants in an active status are included in the dataset. Records are also included for each restaurant that has applied for a permit but has not yet been inspected and for inspections resulting in no violations. Establishments with inspection date of 1/1/1900 are new establishments that have not yet received an inspection. Restaurants that received no violations are represented by a single row and coded as having no violations using the ACTION field. Because this dataset is compiled from several large administrative data systems, it contains some illogical values that could be a result of data entry or transfer errors. Data may also be missing. This dataset and the information on the Health Department’s Restaurant Grading website come from the same data source. The Health Department’s Restaurant Grading website is here: http://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/services/restaurant-grades.page
See the data dictionary file in the Attachments section of the OpenData website for a summary of data fields and allowable values.
* [2015 Street Tree Census - Tree Data](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/uvpi-gqnh) - Street tree data from the TreesCount! 2015 Street Tree Census, conducted by volunteers and staff organized by NYC Parks & Recreation and partner organizations. Tree data collected includes tree species, diameter and perception of health. Accompanying blockface data is available indicating status of data collection and data release citywide.
* [School District Breakdowns](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/g3vh-kbnw) - Demographic statistics broken down by school districts
* [Community Health Survey](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/2r9r-m6j4) - Summary results from NYC Community Health Survey 2010-2014: adults ages 18 years and older Source: NYC Community Health Survey (CHS) 2010-14. The Community Health Survey (CHS) includes self-reported data from adults, years 18 and older. CHS has included adults with landline phones since 2002 and, starting in 2009, also has included adults who can be reached by cell-phone. Starting in 2011, CHS weighting methods were updated to use Census 2010 and additional demographic characteristics (http://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/epi/epiresearch-chsmethods.pdf ). Data are age-adjusted to the US 2000 Standard Population. Data prepared by Bureau of Epidemiology Services, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene The New York City Community Health Survey (CHS) is a telephone survey conducted annually by the DOHMH, Division of Epidemiology, Bureau of Epidemiology Services. CHS provides robust data on the health of New Yorkers, including neighborhood, borough, and citywide estimates on a broad range of chronic diseases and behavioral risk factors. The data are analyzed and disseminated to influence health program decisions, and increase the understanding of the relationship between health behavior and health status. For more information see EpiQuery, https://a816-healthpsi.nyc.gov/epiquery/CHS/CHSXIndex.html
* [HIV/AIDS Diagnoses by Neighborhood, Sex, and Race/Ethnicity](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/ykvb-493p) - These data were reported to the NYC DOHMH by June 30, 2014 This dataset includes data on new diagnoses of HIV and AIDS in NYC for the calendar years 2010 through 2013. Reported cases and case rates (per 100,000 population) are stratified by age group, race/ethnicity, and United Hospital Fund (UHF) neighborhood. For more information, please visit the HIV/AIDS Surveillance Data module on EpiQuery: nyc.gov/health/epiquery Note: - Rates marked "NA" cannot be calculated because the underlying population size is unknown. - Tables or charts may contain suppressed data: cells representing 1-5 person(s) with an underlying denominator of <500 persons, or non-zero cells witha denominator <=100 as per Intercensal 2014 estimates, are marked with an asterisk (*)
* [Youth Behavior Risk Survey](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/3qty-g4aq) - Summary results from YRBS 2011, 2013 Source: Youth Risk Behavior Survey (2011, 2013) Data are weighted to the NYC public high school student population Data prepared by Bureau of Epidemiology Services, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, April 2016 The NYC Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) is conducted through an ongoing collaboration between the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH), the Department of Education (DOE), and the National Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The New York City's YRBS is part of the CDC's National Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS). The survey's primary purpose is to monitor priority health risk behaviors that contribute to the leading causes of mortality, morbidity, and social problems among youth in New York City. For more information see EpiQuery, https://a816-healthpsi.nyc.gov/epiquery/YRBS/yrbsIndex.html.
* [Medicaid coverage for children and pregnant women (Income levels)](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/4se9-u6dw) - This table represents details of Medicaid (coverage for children). Medicaid (coverage for children) is available for many children in working families. Most children who are eligible for Medicaid (coverage for children) do receive their medical care through a health plan, and visit doctors and hospitals that accept that health plan. While ones application is being processed, Medicaid (coverage for children) may provide up to 90 days of retroactive coverage for unpaid medical bills, if eligible during those 90 days
* [NYCHA Facilities and Service Centers](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/d4iy-9uh7) - Contains all occupied and vacant facilities portfolio from Facility Planning (commercial spaces) and Community Operations (community centers, senior centers, day care centers, health centers, etc) It includes the 5 Community Operations borough offices. The source data is our latest Property Directory as December 2012. The field “Comments” contains summary codes to distinguish the type of facility (BO – NYCHA Community Operations Borough Offices, CO – Community Operations, FP – Facility Planning). Please note that there are two commercial spaces (not coded under field “comments”)recorded in our property directory which are not part of the portfolio for Facility Planning.
* [Parks Inspection Program – Inspections](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/yg3y-7juh) - This dataset contains overall ratings associated with property inspections. Each row represents an individual inspection. A complete list of all datasets in the series can be found <a href="https://data.cityofnewyork.us/browse?Data-Collection_Data-Collection=Parks%20Inspection%20Program%20(PIP)&sortBy=alpha">here</a>.
* [2018 Kindergarten Directory - Staten Island](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/hrn4-5ast) - 2018 Staten Island Kindergarten Directory
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales Citywide for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2008](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/ugc2-6t2g) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of all neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes Citywide in 2008. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2008 to December 31, 2008, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale.
* [Demographic Profiles of ACS 5 Year Estimates at the Neighborhood Tabulation Area (NTA) level](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/8cwr-7pqn) - Four tables of ACS demographic profiles for 2012 to 2016 at the NTA level. Four profiles include demographics, economic, housing and sociological. Column headers in this database are abbreviated. Please see the data dictionary (shown in worksheet entitled “Dictionary”) for an explanation of these abbreviated headers.
* [Social Indicators Report Data - Citywide](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/gysw-j2f3) - The Social Indicators Report is an analysis of social conditions across New York City, including geographic and demographic breakdowns, changes over time, and the Mayor's plan for responding to problems highlighted in the report. See also, the recently released Disparity Report produced by the Center for Innovation through Data Intelligence (CIDI). The report can be found at http://www1.nyc.gov/assets/operations/downloads/pdf/Social-Indicators-Report-April-2016.pdf *data not available; ** data estimate is potentially unreliable and should be interpreted with caution; # data are suppressed due to imprecise and unreliable estimates"
* [Health and Hospitals Corporation (HHC) Facilities](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/f7b6-v6v3) - This is a list of the 11 acute care hospitals, four skilled nursing facilities, six large diagnostic and treatment centers and community-based clinics that make up the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, NYC's public hospital system. HHC is a $6.7 billion integrated healthcare delivery system which serves 1.3 million New Yorkers every year and more than 450,000 are uninsured. It provides medical, mental health and substance abuse services. Update Frequency: As needed
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales in Brooklyn for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2008](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/thrx-b6bc) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Brooklyn in 2008. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2008 to December 31, 2008, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale. Update Frequency: Annually
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales in Staten Island for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2008](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/rp8m-vm93) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Staten Island in 2008. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2008 to December 31, 2008, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale.
* [2015 2016 EMS Transports Final Student Race](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/thjb-fm53) - EMS Transports by Student Race
* [2015-2016 MTI All-Star Schools](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/pqbh-p6xe) - Background, Methodology: Local Law 102 enacted in 2015 requires the Department of Education of the New York City School District to submit to the Council an annual report concerning physical education for the prior school year. This report provides information about average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education as defined in Local Law 102 as reported through the 2015-2016 STARS database. It is important to note that schools self-report their scheduling information in STARS. The report also includes information regarding the number and ratio of certified physical education instructors and designated physical education instructional space. This report consists of six tabs: 1. PE Instruction Borough-Level 2. PE Instruction District-Level 3. PE Instruction School-Level 4. Certified PE Teachers 5. PE Space 6. Supplemental Programs 1. PE Instruction Borough-Level This tab includes the average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education by borough, disaggregated by grade, race and ethnicity, gender, special education status and English language learner status. This report only includes students who were enrolled in the same school across all academic terms in the 2015-16 school year. Data on students with disabilities and English language learners are as of the end of the 2015-16 school year. Data on adaptive PE is based on individualized education programs (IEP) finalized on or before 05/31/2016. 2. PE Instruction District-Level This tab includes the average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education by district, disaggregated by grade, race and ethnicity, gender, special education status and English language learner status. This report only includes students who were enrolled in the same school across all academic terms in the 2015-16 school year. Data on students with disabilities and English language learners are as of the end of the 2015-16 school year. Data on adaptive PE is based on individualized education programs (IEP) finalized on or before 05/31/2016. 3. PE Instruction School-Level This tab includes the average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education by school, disaggregated by grade, race and ethnicity, gender, special education status and English language learner status. This report only includes students who were enrolled in the same school across all academic terms in the 2015-16 school year. Data on students with disabilities and English language learners are as of the end of the 2015-16 school year. Data on adaptive PE is based on individualized education programs (IEP) finalized on or before 05/31/2016. 4. Certified PE Teachers This tab provides the number of designated full-time and part-time physical education certified instructors. Does not include elementary, early childhood and K-8 physical education teachers that provide physical education instruction under a common branches license. Also includes ratio of full time instructors teaching in a physical education license to students by school. Data reported is for the 2015-2016 school year as of 10/31/2015. 5. PE Space This tab provides information on all designated indoor, outdoor and off-site spaces used by the school for physical education as reported through the Principal Annual Space Survey and the Outdoor Yard Report. It is important to note that information on each room category is self-reported by principals, and principals determine how each room is classified. Data captures if the PE space is co-located, used by another school or used for another purpose. Includes gyms, athletic fields, auxiliary exercise spaces, dance rooms, field houses, multipurpose spaces, outdoor yards, off-site locations, playrooms, swimming pools and weight rooms as designated PE Space. 6. Supplemental Programs This tab provides information on the department's supplemental physical education
* [Demographic Profile of ACS 1 Year Estimates at the New York City and Borough level](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/w7kn-7zx2) - Four tables of ACS demographic profiles for 2016 at the New York City and Borough level
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales Citywide for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2009](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/5ps9-yuef) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of all neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes Citywide in 2009. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2009 to December 31, 2009, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale. Update Schedule: Annually
* [Primary Care Access and Planning - Health Insurance Enrollment](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/gfej-by6h) - Health insurance enrollment and assistance with SNAP benefits (Food Stamps) Data collected to promote health insurance enrollment among uninsured New Yorkers. Data collected manually. Each record represents a health center location where health insurance enrollment and assistance with SNAP benefits (Food Stamps) are offered. Data can be used by general public seeking assistance with signing up for health insurance or SNAP. Data may change as program needs are changed, e.g., opening of new site or change in hours of operation at a particular site.
* [Social Indicator Report Data](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/8ek7-jxw6) - The Social Indicators Report is an analysis of social conditions across New York City, including geographic and demographic breakdowns, changes over time, and the Mayor's plan for responding to problems highlighted in the report. </br></p>"The Social Indicators Report is an annual report published by the Mayor's Office of Operations to provide a statistical portrait of the City and to help guide the City's efforts to reduce disparities and advance equity. The Social Indicators Report data is compiled from agency requests and census data. The records in this dataset represent current conditions in our society in a number of domains (e.g. Education, Health) and for a variety of populations (e.g. Citywide, by Borough, Race/Ethnicity, Gender). This data can be used to get a clearer understanding of current conditions in New York City, and identifying unmet needs, and areas where progress is being made. Local Law 177 requires the City to report data disaggregated by race, gender, income, and sexual orientation. This year's update meets that requirement wherever feasible. Data on sexual identity is not currently collected at the individual level for the indicators included in this update."
* [Mapped View of HHC Facilities](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/4bew-e6kg) - This is a list of the 11 acute care hospitals, four skilled nursing facilities, six large diagnostic and treatment centers and community-based clinics that make up the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, NYC's public hospital system. HHC is a $6.7 billion integrated healthcare delivery system which serves 1.3 million New Yorkers every year and more than 450,000 are uninsured. It provides medical, mental health and substance abuse services. Update Frequency: As needed
* [Child Health Plus Income Levels](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/vpb3-uf7s) - This table represents details of CHP (Child Health Plus) insurance. Child Health Plus provides free or low-cost health insurance for children under the age of 19 who are not eligible for Medicaid, coverage for children. All children receive their health care through a managed care plan. There are no immigration requirements for Child Health Plus.
* [Community District Breakdowns](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/w3c6-35wg) - Demographic statistics broken down by community districts
* [HIV/AIDS Diagnoses by Neighborhood, Age Group, and Race/Ethnicity](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/dxnu-p2qd) - These data were reported to the NYC DOHMH by June 30, 2014 This dataset includes data on new diagnoses of HIV and AIDS in NYC for the calendar years 2010 through 2013. Reported cases and case rates (per 100,000 population) are stratified by age group, race/ethnicity, and United Hospital Fund (UHF) neighborhood. For more information, please visit the HIV/AIDS Surveillance Data module on EpiQuery: nyc.gov/health/epiquery Note: - Rates marked "NA" cannot be calculated because the underlying population size is unknown. - Tables or charts may contain suppressed data: cells representing 1-5 person(s) with an underlying denominator of <500 persons, or non-zero cells witha denominator <=100 as per Intercensal 2014 estimates, are marked with an asterisk (*)
* [Prenatal care services (monthly income levels)](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/s2zm-f47y) - This table represents details of Prenatal Care Services program. Prenatal Care Services through Medicaid is a comprehensive prenatal care program that offers complete pregnancy care and other health services to women and teens who live in New York State and meet income guidelines. Health insurance is available for pregnant women regardless of their immigration status. Under Prenatal Care Services, pregnant women receive prenatal health services, such as lab tests, HIV tests, nutrition screenings, and other services related to their pregnancy and for at least two months after delivery. Babies receive health care services for at least one year after birth.
* [Moving Violation Summons Statistics](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/f6an-2v46) - This data is a breakdown of all the moving violations (tickets) issued in every precinct throughout the city.This data is collected because the City Council passed Local Law #11 in 2011 and required the NYPD to post it.This data is scheduled to run every month by ITB and is posted on the NYPD website. Each record represents a moving violation issued to a motorist by summons type and what precinct it was issued in. This data can be used to see if poor driving in your resident precinct is being enforced.The limitations of the data is that it is just a stick count of violation without any street locations, time of day or day of the week.
* [Neighborhood Development Area Breakdowns](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/urvc-2kdr) - Demographic statistics broken down by neighborhood development areas
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales Citywide for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2007](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/hdu7-ujt4) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of all neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes Citywide in 2007. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2007 to December 31, 2007, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale. Update Frequency: Annually
* [Community Health Centers](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/b2sp-asbg) - This table represents the details of the Community Health Centers distributed by Borough along with their address, Zip and phone number detail.
* [Broadway Events Calendar](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/gs56-euca) - Broadway Events
* [Primary Care Access and Planning - Health Insurance Enrollment (Map)](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/j7nh-487d) - Health insurance enrollment and assistance with SNAP benefits (Food Stamps) Data collected to promote health insurance enrollment among uninsured New Yorkers. Data collected manually. Each record represents a health center location where health insurance enrollment and assistance with SNAP benefits (Food Stamps) are offered. Data can be used by general public seeking assistance with signing up for health insurance or SNAP. Data may change as program needs are changed, e.g., opening of new site or change in hours of operation at a particular site.
* [DSNY Litter Basket Inventory](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/uhim-nea2) - Locations and types of refuse litter baskets tracked by DSNY Data is collected by DSNY in order to track basket locations. Data is collected through periodic surveys by field personnel. DSNY digitizes the locations of litter baskets using GIS software. Each record represents the approximate location, ownership, and physical type of a single refuse litter basket. The data can be used as an approximate assessment of the locations of litter baskets tracked by the Department of Sanitation in NYC. "Litter basket locations are subject to frequent change, for reasons that include but are not limited to: litter basket damage, nearby construction, graffiti, or regular illegal use of basket for household or commercial waste. There is often a lag time between a change in basket type or location and the reflection of that change in this dataset. This dataset includes information of BID-owned and Privately-owned litter baskets. Non-profit and private entities wishing to place a litter basket on a public street must receive permission from the Department of Sanitation. Location data for these baskets may be less accurate than for baskets that are owned by DSNY. This dataset does not track public litter baskets placed by other City, State, or Federal agencies, notably including the NYC Department of Parks. Recycling baskets are also not tracked in this dataset."
* [Social Indicators Report Data By Neighborhood Tabulation Districts](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/ic2k-etms) - Select metrics by Community District/Neighborhood Tabulation Districts where available. To see the full set of indicators (including those without CD/NTD level data), please refer to “Social Indicators Report Data – Citywide” at https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Social-Services/Social-Indicators-Report-Data-Citywide/gysw-j2f3. The Social Indicators Report is an analysis of social conditions across New York City, including geographic and demographic breakdowns, changes over time, and the Mayor's plan for responding to problems highlighted in the report. The report can be found at http://www1.nyc.gov/assets/operations/downloads/pdf/Social-Indicators-Report-April-2016.pdf. See also, the recently released Disparity Report produced by the Center for Innovation through Data Intelligence (CIDI). The report can be found at http://www1.nyc.gov/assets/operations/downloads/pdf/Social-Indicators-Report-April-2016.pdf
* [NYC REACH Members](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/7btz-mnc8) - The location and facility information for doctors who participate in NYC Regional Electronic Adoption Center for Health (REACH), which assists providers in adopting technology and methods for electronic health records.
* [2018 Kindergarten Directory - Manhattan](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/8c77-xxaj) - 2018 Manhattan Kindergarten Directory
* [Parks Inspection Program – Feature Ratings](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/5mma-5n3h) - This dataset contains ratings for inspected property features. Each row represents a rating for a single feature. A complete list of all datasets in the series can be found <a href="https://data.cityofnewyork.us/browse?Data-Collection_Data-Collection=Parks%20Inspection%20Program%20(PIP)&sortBy=alpha">here</a>.
* [New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation (HHC) Patient Satisfaction - 2009](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/hi3x-y76v) - Patient satisfaction at HHC hospitals is measured by a standardized survey known as the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers & Systems (HCAHPS). The survey has been validated by the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) as a standard assessment tool for all hospitals throughout the nation. This data shows patient satisfaction scores in HHC hospitals. Update Frequency: Annually
* [Lower Manhattan Retailers](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/cw88-qpsr) - Listing of lower Manhattan retailers
* [PE Report](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/x4sg-2jca) - Background, Methodology: Local Law 102 enacted in 2015 requires the Department of Education of the New York City School District to submit to the Council an annual report concerning physical education for the prior school year. </p> This report provides information about average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education as defined in Local Law 102 as reported through the 2015-2016 STARS database. It is important to note that schools self-report their scheduling information in STARS. The report also includes information regarding the number and ratio of certified physical education instructors and designated physical education instructional space.</p> This report consists of six tabs:</p> 1.    PE Instruction Borough-Level 2.    PE Instruction District-Level 3.    PE Instruction School-Level 4.    Certified PE Teachers 5.    PE Space 6. Supplemental Programs</p> 1. PE Instruction Borough-Level This tab includes the average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education by borough, disaggregated by grade, race and ethnicity, gender, special education status and English language learner status. This report only includes students who were enrolled in the same school across all academic terms in the 2015-16 school year. Data on students with disabilities and English language learners are as of the end of the 2015-16 school year. Data on adaptive PE is based on individualized education programs (IEP) finalized on or before 05/31/2016.</p> 2. PE Instruction District-Level This tab includes the average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education by district, disaggregated by grade, race and ethnicity, gender, special education status and English language learner status. This report only includes students who were enrolled in the same school across all academic terms in the 2015-16 school year. Data on students with disabilities and English language learners are as of the end of the 2015-16 school year. Data on adaptive PE is based on individualized education programs (IEP) finalized on or before 05/31/2016.</p> 3. PE Instruction School-Level This tab includes the average frequency and average total minutes per week of physical education by school, disaggregated by grade, race and ethnicity, gender, special education status and English language learner status. This report only includes students who were enrolled in the same school across all academic terms in the 2015-16 school year. Data on students with disabilities and English language learners are as of the end of the 2015-16 school year. Data on adaptive PE is based on individualized education programs (IEP) finalized on or before 05/31/2016.</p> 4. Certified PE Teachers This tab provides the number of designated full-time and part-time physical education certified instructors. Does not include elementary, early childhood and K-8 physical education teachers that provide physical education instruction under a common branches license. Also includes ratio of full time instructors teaching in a physical education license to students by school. Data reported is for the 2015-2016 school year as of 10/31/2015.</p> 5. PE Space This tab provides information on all designated indoor, outdoor and off-site spaces used by the school for physical education as reported through the Principal Annual Space Survey and the Outdoor Yard Report. It is important to note that information on each room category is self-reported by principals, and principals determine how each room is classified. Data captures if the PE space is co-located, used by another school or used for another purpose. Includes gyms, athletic fields, auxiliary exercise spaces, dance rooms, field houses, multipurpose spaces, outdoor yards, off-site locations, playrooms, swimming pools and weight rooms as designated PE Space. </p> 6. Supplemental Programs This tab provides information on the department
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales in Queens for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2006](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/j7yn-nvq9) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Queens in 2006. This list includes all sales of 1-, 2-, and 3-Family Homes' from January 1st, 2006 to December 31, 2006, whose sale price is equal to or more than $150,000. The Building Class Category for Sales is based on the Building Class at the time of the sale.
* [Social Indicators Report Data By Community District](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/nvqd-aa32) - Select metrics by Community District/Neighborhood Tabulation Districts where available. To see the full set of indicators (including those without CD/NTD level data), please refer to “Social Indicators Report Data – Citywide” at https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Social-Services/Social-Indicators-Report-Data-Citywide/gysw-j2f3. The Social Indicators Report is an analysis of social conditions across New York City, including geographic and demographic breakdowns, changes over time, and the Mayor's plan for responding to problems highlighted in the report. The report can be found at http://www1.nyc.gov/assets/operations/downloads/pdf/Social-Indicators-Report-April-2016.pdf *data not available; # data are suppressed due to imprecise and unreliable estimates
* [DOF: Summary of Neighborhood Sales for Manhattan for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes - 2009](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/5yay-3jd5) - The Department of Finance (DOF) maintains records for all property sales in New York City, including sales of family homes in each borough. This list is a summary of neighborhood sales for Class 1-, 2- and 3-Family homes in Manhattan in 2009.
* [Parks Inspection Program – Comfort Station Feature Ratings](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/xmiz-qy72) - This dataset contains ratings for inspected comfort station features. Each row represents a rating for a single feature. A complete list of all datasets in the series can be found <a href="https://data.cityofnewyork.us/browse?Data-Collection_Data-Collection=Parks%20Inspection%20Program%20(PIP)&sortBy=alpha">here</a>.
* [2015 2016  EMS Transport Final Students With Disabilities](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/ftpm-ey3k) - EMS Transport for Students With Disabilities
* [Assembly District Breakdowns](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/2t32-hbca) - Demographic statistics broken down by assembly districts
* [Home Care Caseload](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/d/xjur-zbxw) - Monthly trend analysis on home care cases.
