# data.calgary.ca health datasets
* [Community Services](https://data.calgary.ca/d/x34e-bcjz) - In this model amenities are classified under the following headings: Attractions, Community Centre, Court, Defibrillator, Health Clinic, Hospital, Internet Access, Library, Place of Worship, Post Secondary, Private School, Public School, Separate School, Skate Parks, Social Dev Ctr, Visitor Info. Name, address, location information and homepage information if available.* [Waste per Capita](https://data.calgary.ca/d/nyvz-ddbn) - This dataset contains the number of kilograms of waste landfilled per capita in The City of Calgary* [Heritage Trees in Calgary](https://data.calgary.ca/d/qmxc-agq2) - Information about Calgary's urban forest, including the locations and types of trees on public land. To learn more, visit the <a href="https://maps.calgary.ca/TreeSchedule/">Urban Forest Management map</a>.* [Average # Crimes Per # Residents in Community](https://data.calgary.ca/d/d3pw-e7bk) - Disorder events included are: Drunk, Disturbance, Indecent Act, Juvenile Complaint, Landlord/tenant, Mental health concern, Neighbor dispute, Party complaint, Prowler, Suspicious person, Threats, Drugs, Noise complaint, Possible gunshots, Unwanted guest/patron, Prostitution, Speeder, Suspicious Auto (grouped as Social Disorder), Fire, Property damage and Abandoned auto (grouped as Physical Disorder.  Crime count is based on the most serious violation (MSV) per incident.  Violence:  These figures include all violent crime offences as defined by the Centre for Canadian Justice Statistics Universal Crime Reporting (UCR) rules.  Domestic violence is excluded. Break and Enter:   Residential B&E includes both House and ‘Other’ structure break and enters due to the predominantly residential nature of this type of break in (e.g. detached garages, sheds).  B&Es incidents include attempts.
**Resident counts for 2018 will be made available once 2018 census data is complete.*** [Community Crime Map](https://data.calgary.ca/d/hhjd-wzc2) - Disorder events included are: Drunk, Disturbance, Indecent Act, Juvenile Complaint, Landlord/tenant, Mental health concern, Neighbor dispute, Party complaint, Prowler, Suspicious person, Threats, Drugs, Noise complaint, Possible gunshots, Unwanted guest/patron, Prostitution, Speeder, Suspicious Auto (grouped as Social Disorder), Fire, Property damage and Abandoned auto (grouped as Physical Disorder.  Crime count is based on the most serious violation (MSV) per incident.  Violence:  These figures include all violent crime offences as defined by the Centre for Canadian Justice Statistics Universal Crime Reporting (UCR) rules.  Domestic violence is excluded. Break and Enter:   Residential B&E includes both House and ‘Other’ structure break and enters due to the predominantly residential nature of this type of break in (e.g. detached garages, sheds).  B&Es incidents include attempts.
**Resident counts for 2018 will be made available once 2018 census data is complete.**