# data.opendatanetwork.com health datasets
* [AUS_EMS Annual Incidents 2012](https://data.opendatanetwork.com/d/ug8w-seeg) - Annual EMS incidents for calendar 2012. An incident is generated when a request for assistance is received, generally through 911. An incident may generate multiple responses. Note: Due to the methodological differences in data collection, different data sources may produce different results.* [2011_ AHS National Summary Report tables](https://data.opendatanetwork.com/d/kb4n-hin9) - The AHS is the largest, regular national housing sample survey in the United States. The U.S. Census Bureau conducts the AHS to obtain up-to-date housing statistics for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The AHS contains a wealth of information that can be used by professionals in nearly every field for planning, decisionmaking, market research, or various kinds of program development. It gives you data on apartments, single-family homes, mobile homes, vacant homes, family composition, income, housing and neighborhood quality, housing costs, equipment, fuels, size of housing unit, and recent movers. This report was written in 2011. The file size is 1.3MB. This data can also be found in PDF format at http://www.census.gov/prod/2011pubs/h150-09.pdf* [NYC_Multiple Dwelling Registrations](https://data.opendatanetwork.com/d/m9p6-qjq3) - Pursuant to New York City’s Housing Maintenance Code, the Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD) collects registration information from owners of residential rental units. Owners are required to register if they own residential buildings with three or more units or if they own one- or two-family homes and neither they nor members of their immediate family live there. Registrations are required upon taking ownership of a qualifying building, and once a year thereafter.* [CHI_Individual Landmarks Map](https://data.opendatanetwork.com/d/gcgm-htka) - This dataset is a list of individual Chicago Landmarks designated by City Council upon recommendation of the Commission on Chicago Landmarks. It contains the name of each landmark property along with the date of its construction (if known), the name of its architect/designer (if known), and the date of Chicago Landmark designation. Additional information about each individual Chicago Landmark can be found on the Chicago Landmarks home page at http://j.mp/lRJVnh. Properties which have been proposed for landmark designation by the Commission on Chicago Landmarks and remain under consideration are not included. This information is for illustrative purposes only; the legal descriptions are as identified by the respective landmark designation ordinances. A dataset containing Chicago Landmark Districts is available separately. Data updated quarterly.* [STB_Boundaries City Parcels](https://data.opendatanetwork.com/d/9uqp-xndp) - Parcel boundaries for the City of South Bend, including location and ownership information. Property ownership information is subject to change and may not be current. Contact the St. Joseph County Auditor at 574.235.9668 to verify information.* [2013_Section 8 Income Limits](https://data.opendatanetwork.com/d/fapf-neir) - The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is required by law to set
income limits that determine the eligibility of applicants for HUD's assisted housing programs. The major active assisted housing programs are the Public Housing program, the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher program, Section 202 housing for the elderly program, and Section 811 housing for persons with disabilities program. FY2013.* [2013_Section 8 Income Limits](https://data.opendatanetwork.com/d/fapf-neir) - The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is required by law to set
income limits that determine the eligibility of applicants for HUD's assisted housing programs. The major active assisted housing programs are the Public Housing program, the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher program, Section 202 housing for the elderly program, and Section 811 housing for persons with disabilities program. FY2013.