# data.sccgov.org health datasets
* [Census Block 2010](https://data.sccgov.org/d/rz4s-5yw2) - Census block geometry within Santa Clara County from the 2010 Census Tiger shapefiles. Feature class derived from Tiger line shapefile of 2010 census blocks for Santa Clara County and geographic identifier table, G001. Some attribute names may be when exporting as shapefile due to 10 character limitation of shapefile attribute names.* [Census Block Group 2010](https://data.sccgov.org/d/d3sd-zr4w) - Census blockgroup geometry within Santa Clara County from the 2010 Census Tiger shapefiles. Feature class derived from Tiger line shapefile of 2010 census blockgroups for Santa Clara County and geographic identifier table, G001. Some attribute names may be when exporting as shapefile due to 10 character limitation of shapefile attribute names.* [Census Tract 2010 (for spatial data download)](https://data.sccgov.org/d/kd5k-3bb5) - Census tract geometry within Santa Clara County from the 2010 Census Tiger shapefiles.Feature class derived from Tiger line shapefile of 2010 census tracts for Santa Clara County and geographic identifier table, G001. Some attribute names may be when exporting as shapefile due to 10 character limitation of shapefile attribute names.* [Demographic Statistics - Small Area/Neighborhood](https://data.sccgov.org/d/7adv-8r8t) - Neighborhood; Population Size; African American; Asian/Pacific Islander; Latino; White; Foreign-born; Speaks a language other than English at home; Single parent households; Households with children; Average household size; 0-5 years; 6-11 years; 12-17 years; 18-24 years; 25-34 years; 35-44 years; 45-54 years; 55-64 years; Ages 65 and older; Ages 17 and younger.

THIS DATA IS PROVIDED “AS IS.”  THE COUNTY MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND/OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, REGARDING THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, VALUE, QUALITY, VALIDITY, MERCHANTABILITY, SUITABILITY, AND CONDITIONS, OF THE DATA.  USERS OF THIS DATA SHOULD CONSULT PRIMARY INFORMATION SOURCES FOR VERIFICATION OF THE DATA.* [Infant Mortality Rate by Zipcode](https://data.sccgov.org/d/aepi-y88y) - Infant mortality rate, Santa Clara County, 2004-2013. Santa Clara County Public Health Department, 2004-2013 Death Statistical Master File; Santa Clara County Public Health Department, 2008 Birth Statistical Master File.

THIS DATA IS PROVIDED “AS IS.”  THE COUNTY MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND/OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, REGARDING THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, VALUE, QUALITY, VALIDITY, MERCHANTABILITY, SUITABILITY, AND CONDITIONS, OF THE DATA.  USERS OF THIS DATA SHOULD CONSULT PRIMARY INFORMATION SOURCES FOR VERIFICATION OF THE DATA.* [Social Vulnerability Index](https://data.sccgov.org/d/5x3x-ia5k) - The Social Vulnerability Index (SVI) indicates the relative overall vulnerability of every U.S. Census tract within Santa Clara County based on 14 social factors as developed by the Center for Disease Control. Derived primarily from U.S. Census American Community Survey 5 yr data 2012-2016 in 2018.
THIS DATA IS PROVIDED “AS IS.”  THE COUNTY MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND/OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, REGARDING THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, VALUE, QUALITY, VALIDITY, MERCHANTABILITY, SUITABILITY, AND CONDITIONS, OF THE DATA.  USERS OF THIS DATA SHOULD CONSULT PRIMARY INFORMATION SOURCES FOR VERIFICATION OF THE DATA* [Asthma Emergency Department Visit Rate  Ages 0-17 by Zipcode](https://data.sccgov.org/d/rgtp-7mfn) - Asthma emergency department visit rate among children ages 0-17, Santa Clara County, 2009-2013. Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development, 2009-2013 Emergency Department Data; State of California, Department of Finance, Race/Ethnic Population .
THIS DATA IS PROVIDED “AS IS.”  THE COUNTY MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND/OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, REGARDING THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, VALUE, QUALITY, VALIDITY, MERCHANTABILITY, SUITABILITY, AND CONDITIONS, OF THE DATA.  USERS OF THIS DATA SHOULD CONSULT PRIMARY INFORMATION SOURCES FOR VERIFICATION OF THE DATA.* [High School Graduation Rate by School District](https://data.sccgov.org/d/y9nx-zebr) - High school 4-year cohort graduation rate, Santa Clara County, 2013-14. California Department of Education, Data Quest, 2013-14.

THIS DATA IS PROVIDED “AS IS.”  THE COUNTY MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND/OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, REGARDING THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, VALUE, QUALITY, VALIDITY, MERCHANTABILITY, SUITABILITY, AND CONDITIONS, OF THE DATA.  USERS OF THIS DATA SHOULD CONSULT PRIMARY INFORMATION SOURCES FOR VERIFICATION OF THE DATA.