# data.maryland.gov health datasets
* [MD iMAP: Maryland Federal Lands - Federal Lands](https://data.maryland.gov/d/c3g8-ixa9) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service layer. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. The federal Lands data consists of land areas that are run and maintained by United States Governmental authorities. These files were created for planning purposes and should not be used as a definitive source of mapped data for any of the associated types of land ownership. There have been intentional omissions due to sensitive data types and in some cases - the source documents cannot be considered complete. Last Updated: 05/2014 Feature Service Layer Link: http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/PlanningCadastre/MD_FederalLands/FeatureServer/0 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland US National Grid Zone 18S - US National Grid Zone 18S (10000m)](https://data.maryland.gov/d/se4i-3f37) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service layer. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. This layer is the MGRS 10 - 000m grid that covers Zone 18S which covers part of MarylandThe U.S. National Grid provides a standardized grid reference system that is seamless across jurisdictional boundaries and allows for pinpointing exact locations. Since USNG is standardized - it can be understood and used as a common geographic framework for response. Zone 18S covers part of Maryland. The vertical UTM boundaries are horizontal latitude band boundaries form (generally) 6 X 8 Grid Zones. Hence - the first three letters of the MGRS value - e.g. '18S' - are referred to as the Grid Zone Designator (GZD). The fourth and fifth characters are a pair of letters identifying one of the 100 - 000-meter grid squares within the grid zone (or UPS area). The S"" in this instance is not to be confused with UTM Zone 18S for UTM in the Southern Hemisphere. There are no classification restrictions on this information. This information was created by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Coordinate Systems Analysis Team (SNAC). Last Updated: 01/2016 Feature Service Layer Link: http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/Location/MD_USNGZone18S/FeatureServer/2 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively the ""Data"") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland US National Grid Zone 18S - US National Grid Zone 18S (6x8 Zones)](https://data.maryland.gov/d/9tt7-nmyq) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service layer. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. This layer is the UTM 6x8 zone that covers Zone 18S which covers part of Maryland.The U.S. National Grid provides a standardized grid reference system that is seamless across jurisdictional boundaries and allows for pinpointing exact locations. Since USNG is standardized - it can be understood and used as a common geographic framework for response. Zone 18S covers part of Maryland. The vertical UTM boundaries are horizontal latitude band boundaries form (generally) 6 X 8 Grid Zones. Hence - the first three letters of the MGRS value - e.g. '18S' - are referred to as the Grid Zone Designator (GZD). The fourth and fifth characters are a pair of letters identifying one of the 100 - 000-meter grid squares within the grid zone (or UPS area). The S"" in this instance is not to be confused with UTM Zone 18S for UTM in the Southern Hemisphere. There are no classification restrictions on this information. This information was created by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Coordinate Systems Analysis Team (SNAC). Last Updated: 01/2016 Feature Service Layer Link: http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/Location/MD_USNGZone18S/FeatureServer/0 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively the ""Data"") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland US National Grid Zone 18S - US National Grid Zone 18S (1000m)](https://data.maryland.gov/d/jreu-dgkv) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service layer. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. This layer is the MGRS 1000m grid that covers Zone 18S which covers part of Maryland.The U.S. National Grid provides a standardized grid reference system that is seamless across jurisdictional boundaries and allows for pinpointing exact locations. Since USNG is standardized - it can be understood and used as a common geographic framework for response. Zone 18S covers part of Maryland. The vertical UTM boundaries are horizontal latitude band boundaries form (generally) 6 X 8 Grid Zones. Hence - the first three letters of the MGRS value - e.g. '18S' - are referred to as the Grid Zone Designator (GZD). The fourth and fifth characters are a pair of letters identifying one of the 100000-meter grid squares within the grid zone (or UPS area). The "S" in this instance is not to be confused with UTM Zone 18S for UTM in the Southern Hemisphere. There are no classification restrictions on this information. This information was created by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Coordinate Systems Analysis Team (SNAC). Last Updated: 01/2016 Feature Service Layer Link: http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/Location/MD_USNGZone18S/FeatureServer/3 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively the "Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland Archived ACS ZIP Code](https://data.maryland.gov/d/ekbh-bmuc) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service. Find more information on http://imap.maryland.gov. The American Community Survey (ACS) is a nationwide - continuous survey designed to provide communities with reliable and timely demographic - housing - social and economic data. The ACS replaces the decennial census long form in 2010 and every year thereafter. The annual ACS sample is smaller than that of previous long form surveys resulting in a larger sampling error. Coefficients of Variation (CVs) - which are statistical measures that show the relative amount of sampling error associated with an estimate - are presented here as a measure of reliability and usability of the data. The unit of geography used for the 2009 - 2013 data is the ZIP Code Tabulation Area (ZCTA). ZCTAs are statistical geographic areas produced by the Census Bureau by aggregating census blocks to create generalized areas closely resembling the U.S. Postal Service's postal ZIP codes. Map Service Link: http://archive.geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/ Demographics/MD_ArchivedAmericanCommunitySurvey/MapServer/3 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland Community Health Resource Commission - Behavioral Health Grantees](https://data.maryland.gov/d/uifv-ymnf) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. Behavioral Health Grantees - The Maryland Community Health Resources Commission works to expand access to health care services for low-income and under-served communities across the state.Feature Service Link:http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/Health/MD_CommunityHealthResourceCommission/FeatureServer/0 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland American Community Survey - ACS ZIP Code Tabulation Areas (ZCTAs)](https://data.maryland.gov/d/hynk-7ifa) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. The American Community Survey (ACS) is a nationwide - continuous survey designed to provide communities with reliable and timely demographic - housing - social and economic data. The ACS replaces the decennial census long form in 2010 and every year thereafter. The annual ACS sample is smaller than that of previous long form surveys resulting in a larger sampling error. Coefficients of Variation (CVs) - which are statistical measures that show the relative amount of sampling error associated with an estimate - are presented here as a measure of reliability and usability of the data. The unit of geography used for the 2010 - 2014 data is the ZIP Code Tabulation Area (ZCTA). ZCTAs are statistical geographic areas produced by the Census Bureau by aggregating census blocks to create generalized areas closely resembling the U.S. Postal Service's postal ZIP codes.Feature Service Link:http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/Demographics/MD_AmericanCommunitySurvey/FeatureServer/1 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland Community Health Resource Commission - Health Information Technology Grantees](https://data.maryland.gov/d/2rz3-8yq9) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. Health Information Technology Grantees - The Maryland Community Health Resources Commission works to expand access to health care services for low-income and under-served communities across the state.Feature Service Link:http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/Health/MD_CommunityHealthResourceCommission/FeatureServer/4 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland Protected Lands - Protected Federal Lands](https://data.maryland.gov/d/7rqg-3zx5) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. The Federal Lands data consists of land areas that are run and maintained by United States Governmental authorities and are considered protected.These files were created for planning purposes and should not be used as a definitive source of mapped data for any of the associated types of land ownership. There have been intentional omissions due to sensitive data types and in some cases - the source documents cannot be considered complete. Last Updated: 05/2014Feature Service Link:http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/Environment/MD_ProtectedLands/FeatureServer/8 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland Community Health Resource Commission - Primary Care Grantees](https://data.maryland.gov/d/rj4q-zev4) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. Primary Care Grantees - The Maryland Community Health Resources Commission works to expand access to health care services for low-income and under-served communities across the state.Feature Service Link:http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/Health/MD_CommunityHealthResourceCommission/FeatureServer/6 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland Archived American Community Survey Zip Code Tabulation Areas 2009 to 2013](https://data.maryland.gov/d/kscs-gqx8) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service. Find more information on http://imap.maryland.gov. The American Community Survey (ACS) is a nationwide - continuous survey designed to provide communities with reliable and timely demographic - housing - social and economic data. The ACS replaces the decennial census long form in 2010 and every year thereafter. The annual ACS sample is smaller than that of previous long form surveys resulting in a larger sampling error. Coefficients of Variation (CVs) - which are statistical measures that show the relative amount of sampling error associated with an estimate - are presented here as a measure of reliability and usability of the data. The unit of geography used for the 2009 - 2013 data is the ZIP Code Tabulation Area (ZCTA). ZCTAs are statistical geographic areas produced by the Census Bureau by aggregating census blocks to create generalized areas closely resembling the U.S. Postal Service's postal ZIP codes. Map Service Link: http://archive.geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/ Demographics/MD_ArchivedAmericanCommunitySurvey/MapServer/3 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland Archived American Community Survey Census Tracts 2009 to 2013](https://data.maryland.gov/d/w28h-e9aa) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service. Find more information on http://imap.maryland.gov. The American Community Survey (ACS) is a nationwide - continuous survey designed to provide communities with reliable and timely demographic - housing - social and economic data. The ACS replaces the decennial census long form in 2010 and every year thereafter. The annual ACS sample is smaller than that of previous long form surveys resulting in a larger sampling error. Coefficients of Variation (CVs) - which are statistical measures that show the relative amount of sampling error associated with an estimate - are presented here as a measure of reliability and usability of the data. The unit of geography used for the 2009 - 2013 data is the census tract - a small statistical area within a county - which is delineated every 10 years prior to the decennial census. Map Service Link: http://archive.geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/ Demographics/MD_ArchivedAmericanCommunitySurvey/MapServer/2 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
* [MD iMAP: Maryland Living Resources - Chesapeake Bay Horseshoe Crab Habitat](https://data.maryland.gov/d/jeie-8j5r) - This is a MD iMAP hosted service. Find more information at http://imap.maryland.gov. These data sets exist in raster and vector formats. The areas in this data set were derived from sitings called in and tracked by Steve Doctor at Matapeake. These sitings were located as points on a map that were contributed by Mr. Doctor and Nancy Butowski - DNR Fisheries Service. Professional guidance was provided by Nancy Butowski and Steve Doctor. The areas were then located on the VIMS shoreline data set and exported as an independent data set. These data sets were then converted to raster format and reclassified with a rank determined by DNR biologists. This rank determines level of habitat importance with spawning areas ranking highest and adult areas of bay depth below 3 feet ranking the lowest. These ranked rasters were then stacked and an output raster was created showing areas of high habitat diversity. These rasters were then clipped by county.Feature Service Link:http://geodata.md.gov/imap/rest/services/Biota/MD_LivingResources/FeatureServer/3 ADDITIONAL LICENSE TERMS: The Spatial Data and the information therein (collectively "the Data") is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind either expressed implied or statutory. The user assumes the entire risk as to quality and performance of the Data. No guarantee of accuracy is granted nor is any responsibility for reliance thereon assumed. In no event shall the State of Maryland be liable for direct indirect incidental consequential or special damages of any kind. The State of Maryland does not accept liability for any damages or misrepresentation caused by inaccuracies in the Data or as a result to changes to the Data nor is there responsibility assumed to maintain the Data in any manner or form. The Data can be freely distributed as long as the metadata entry is not modified or deleted. Any data derived from the Data must acknowledge the State of Maryland in the metadata.
