# data.edmonton.ca health datasets
* [2014 Census - Population By Ownership And Length Of Residence (Ward)](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/hd78-7y4x) - All Census information is as of April 1, 2014. Ages of residents are effective April 1, 2014. No data on any individual residence will be released. To protect the privacy of individuals, data is compiled and presented at the city, ward and neighbourhood level only. Neighbourhood results with a population under 49 are not posted to protect the information collected. The designation of “No Response” includes households from which no census data could be collected or only partial data was available. Bulk-count data from multiple-resident facilities (such as group homes, transient drop-in centres, residential hotels or criminal detention centres) may be limited when personal information cannot be obtained (i.e. information is not available or cannot be released by the facility administration).
* [2016 Census - Population by Ownership and Length of Residence (Ward)](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/c9nb-gfen) - All Census information is as of April 1, 2016. No data on any individual residence will be released. To protect the privacy of individuals, data is compiled and presented at the city, ward and neighbourhood level only. Neighbourhood results with a population under 50 are not posted to protect the information collected. Responses are voluntary consequently response rates vary among questions, neighbourhoods and wards.
* [2009 Census - Dwelling Unit By Structure Type And Ownership (Citywide)](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/8s6g-dibx) - All Census information is as of April 1, 2009. No data on any individual residence will be released. To protect the privacy of individuals, data is compiled and presented at the city-, ward- and neighbourhood-level only. The designation of “No Response” includes households from which no census data could be collected or only partial data was available. Bulk-count data from multiple-resident facilities (such as group homes, transient drop-in centres, residential hotels or criminal detention centres) may be limited when personal information can not be obtained (i.e. information is not available or can not be released by the facility administration). “Other Residential” includes dwelling units not covered by the other categories, such as a unit attached to a non-residential structure (e.g. an apartment in a store or church) or a movable structure (e.g. recreational vehicle, tent, etc.).
* [2014 Census - Dwelling Unit By Ownership (Ward)](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/8kdh-wqa3) - All Census information is as of April 1, 2014. Ages of residents are effective April 1, 2014. No data on any individual residence will be released. To protect the privacy of individuals, data is compiled and presented at the city, ward and neighbourhood level only. Neighbourhood results with a population under 49 are not posted to protect the information collected. The designation of “No Response” includes households from which no census data could be collected or only partial data was available. Bulk-count data from multiple-resident facilities (such as group homes, transient drop-in centres, residential hotels or criminal detention centres) may be limited when personal information cannot be obtained (i.e. information is not available or cannot be released by the facility administration).
* [2014 Census - Dwelling Unit By Ownership (Citywide)](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/qrir-nrme) - All Census information is as of April 1, 2014. Ages of residents are effective April 1, 2014. No data on any individual residence will be released. To protect the privacy of individuals, data is compiled and presented at the city, ward and neighbourhood level only. Neighbourhood results with a population under 49 are not posted to protect the information collected. The designation of “No Response” includes households from which no census data could be collected or only partial data was available. Bulk-count data from multiple-resident facilities (such as group homes, transient drop-in centres, residential hotels or criminal detention centres) may be limited when personal information cannot be obtained (i.e. information is not available or cannot be released by the facility administration).
* [Continuing Care Accommodation Standards Compliance Reporting - Map](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/thq4-k8j9) - This map is based on data that comes from Open Data - Government of Alberta as found here: https://open.alberta.ca/dataset/2003f13d-33ad-4d3f-865d-0d9488ace84d/resource/ec56d037-7fd5-4b4f-8c59-a880aa4cb653 Any use, in whole or in part, must comply with the Terms of Use from the Government of Alberta's Open Data site as found here: https://www.alberta.ca/disclaimer.aspx Alberta Health monitors all supportive living and long-term care accommodations for compliance to the Accommodation Standards, minimally on an annual basis. The purpose of the Accommodation Standards is to ensure accommodations maintain a high quality of accommodation services (e.g. meals, building maintenance, security and housekeeping) that promote the safety, security and quality of life of Albertans living in those accommodations. Alberta Health currently reports publicly on the results of licensing and monitoring visits in supportive living and long-term care facilities across the province at http://standardsandlicensing.alberta.ca. This table provides statistics on supportive living and long-term care facilities and their compliance to the Accommodation Standards since April 1, 2013 as well as licensing and contact information.
* [Evolving Infill - Edmonton Insight Community (Q03.02)](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/72bp-c7ap) - Definitions of core Neighbourhoods, Mature Neighbourhoods and Established Neighbourhoods were given. Respondents were asked to select all that apply to the following statement: When you think of residential infill and the relative affordability of homes in core, mature and established neighbourhoods, are you thinking mostly of homes that are: Option: Owned
* [2016 Census - Population by Ownership and Length of Residence (Neighbourhood/Ward)](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/hc9x-fhuk) - All Census information is as of April 1, 2016. No data on any individual residence will be released. To protect the privacy of individuals, data is compiled and presented at the city, ward and neighbourhood level only. Neighbourhood results with a population under 50 are not posted to protect the information collected. Responses are voluntary consequently response rates vary among questions, neighbourhoods and wards.
* [Evolving Infill - Edmonton Insight Community (Q03.04)](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/qfte-u94w) - Definitions of core Neighbourhoods, Mature Neighbourhoods and Established Neighbourhoods were given. Respondents were asked to select all that apply to the following statement: When you think of residential infill and the relative affordability of homes in core, mature and established neighbourhoods, are you thinking mostly of homes that are: Option: Other (please specify)
* [Emergency Preparedness and Communications - Edmonton Insight Community](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/8im9-aev7) - This was one single topic among many as part of the April Mixed Topic survey. Test link to view these questions: https://www.edmontoninsightcommunity.ca/R.aspx?a=254&t=1. Open from April 14 - 22, 2015. At the time the survey was launched survey invitations were sent to *** Insight Community Members. 947 members completed the survey which represents a completion rate of 41%. A total of 979 respondents completed the survey: 947 Insight Community Members and 32 using the anonymous link which will have no demographic info.
* [Community in Bloom - Past Results](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/dep6-aymg) - Results given to Edmonton by the Communities in Bloom national program.
* [2014 Flood Mitigation Study - Surface Ponding Depth < 0.35 m (Green) Layer](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/cu5z-aad4) - The depth layer that this spatial data represents is the < 0.35 m Surface Ponding Depth (Green) layer. This map representation was created as a result of a 2013 to 2016 study done for the Edmonton area to determine the vulnerable areas of Edmonton in regards to a 1 in 100 year rainfall event. Due to the constant changing of subsurface infrastructure (adding, upgrading, etc.) combined with the constant changing definition of a 1 in 100 year rainfall event (based on historic rainfall amounts), this raster file reflects the results of a study done in 2016 and should neither suggest previous year’s vulnerabilities nor future year’s vulnerabilities. There are four different colours to show the depth of water that might pool on the ground during a large rainstorm. Those colours are: Green (representing a ponding depth from 0.00 - 0.35 m) Yellow (representing a ponding depth from 0.35 - 0.50 m) Orange (representing a ponding depth from 0.50 to 0.75 m) Red (representing a ponding depth greater than 0.75 m) For a more information regarding the Flood Risk Maps and the City’s proactive strategy see : https://www.edmonton.ca/city_government/documents/RoadsTraffic/City-wide_Flood_Mitigation_Study.pdf This dataset is based on 2014 information and will not be updated further. The model is based on a theoretical, worst-case scenario storm that has never occurred in the Edmonton area. Model Accuracy: For Areas west and central Digital Elevation Model was used from 2004. For the rest of the areas Bare Earth LiDar data was used. The surface data used was set to a horizontal resolution of 2.5 meters with a grid cell of 5m by 5m. This puts the vertical resolution at an accuracy of 0.1 meters. This is a spline fit interpolations model. This is a 1D-1D model with 2D interpolations.The accuracy of the information provided in these data sets is plus or minus 10 cm vertically, and 10 cm horizontally. The 100 year flood was based on the 2015 Edmonton 4 year Chicago storm event over 20 plus neighbourhoods. The data is a collection of the worst case scenario of model runs. This is a common practice for Edmonton drainage models. These models are high level concept and projects determined from this data set will undergo finer, more detailed modeling. Disclaimer: No Warranty with Flood Risk Maps. Your use of the flood risk maps is solely at your own risk, and you are fully responsible for any consequences arising from your use of the flood risk maps. The flood risk maps are provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis, and you agree to use them solely at your own risk. There are no warranties, expressed or implied in respect to the flood risk maps or your use of them, including without limitation, implied warranties and conditions of merchantability and fitness for any particular purpose. Please note that the flood risk maps have been modified from their original source, and that all data visualization on maps are approximate and include only records that can be mapped. Geo Coordinate System: WGS84
* [Continuing Care Facilities in Edmonton and Area](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/e9ja-kdik) - This dataset comes from Open Data - Government of Alberta as found here: https://open.alberta.ca/dataset/2003f13d-33ad-4d3f-865d-0d9488ace84d/resource/ec56d037-7fd5-4b4f-8c59-a880aa4cb653 Any use, in whole or in part, must comply with the Terms of Use from the Government of Alberta's Open Data site as found here: https://www.alberta.ca/disclaimer.aspx Alberta Health monitors all supportive living and long-term care accommodations for compliance to the Accommodation Standards, minimally on an annual basis. The purpose of the Accommodation Standards is to ensure accommodations maintain a high quality of accommodation services (e.g. meals, building maintenance, security and housekeeping) that promote the safety, security and quality of life of Albertans living in those accommodations. Alberta Health currently reports publicly on the results of licensing and monitoring visits in supportive living and long-term care facilities across the province at http://standardsandlicensing.alberta.ca. This table provides statistics on supportive living and long-term care facilities and their compliance to the Accommodation Standards since April 1, 2013 as well as licensing and contact information. USAGE CONSIDERATIONS
The accommodation data is collected from licensed operators through the licensing application process. The compliance data is collected by Licensing Inspectors when they visit accommodations to monitor compliance to the accommodation standards. The data collected is housed in a custom designed database named Accommodation Standards Licensing and Tracking (ASTRAL) System. The accommodation and compliance information from ASTRAL is published to http://standardsandlicensing.alberta.ca in "real time". The compliance information dates back to April 1, 2013 until the date of the dataset. The data contained within this dataset may not match the data at http://standardsandlicenisng.alberta.ca because of the update frequency as the information on http://standardsandlicensing.alberta.ca is updated in "real time". Form more information on Continuing Care Accommodation Standards, please refer to: http://www.health.alberta.ca/services/continuing-care-standards.html
* [Development Notif Letters - Edmonton Insight Community](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/yvag-fjzv) - This was one single topic among many as part of the December Mixed Topic survey. Test link to view these questions: https://www.edmontoninsightcommunity.ca/R.aspx?a=141&t=1. Open from November 30 - December 09, 2014. At the time the survey was launched survey invitations were sent to 2035 Insight Community Members. 950 members completed the survey which represents a completion rate of 47%. A total of 1049 respondents completed the survey: 950 Insight Community Members and 99 using the anonymous link which will have no demographic info.
* [2009 Census - Dwelling Unit By Structure Type And Ownership (Ward)](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/4ev8-6z47) - All Census information is as of April 1, 2009. Ward Reports are based on the 6-Ward system, which existed in the City of Edmonton until October, 2010. No data on any individual residence will be released. To protect the privacy of individuals, data is compiled and presented at the city-, ward- and neighbourhood-level only. The designation of “No Response” includes households from which no census data could be collected or only partial data was available. Bulk-count data from multiple-resident facilities (such as group homes, transient drop-in centres, residential hotels or criminal detention centres) may be limited when personal information can not be obtained (i.e. information is not available or can not be released by the facility administration). “Other Residential” includes dwelling units not covered by the other categories, such as a unit attached to a non-residential structure (e.g. an apartment in a store or church) or a movable structure (e.g. recreational vehicle, tent, etc.).
* [Animal Care - Edmonton Insight Community](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/2r38-7gdf) - This was one single topic among many as part of the December 2015 (Part 1) Mixed Topic survey. Test link to view these questions: https://www.edmontoninsightcommunity.ca/R.aspx?a=716&as=kP4zN8uI7V&t=1. Open from December 7 - 15, 2015. At the time the survey was launched survey invitations were sent to 1995 Insight Community Members. 691 members completed the survey which represents a completion rate of 35%. A total of 794 respondents completed the survey: 691 Insight Community Members and 103 using the anonymous link which will have no demographic info.
* [2014 Flood Mitigation Study - Surface Ponding Depth 0.35 m to 0.50 m (Orange) Layer](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/aqu5-5cdc) - The depth layer that this spatial data represents is the 0.35 m to 0.50 m Surface Ponding Depth (Orange) layer. This raster file was created as a result of a 2013 to 2016 study done for the Edmonton area to determine the vulnerable areas of Edmonton in regards to a 1 in 100 year rainfall event. Due to the constant changing of subsurface infrastructure (adding, upgrading, etc.) combined with the constant changing definition of a 1 in 100 year rainfall event (based on historic rainfall amounts), this raster file reflects the results of a study done in 2016 and should neither suggest previous year’s vulnerabilities nor future year’s vulnerabilities. There are four different colours to show the depth of water that might pool on the ground during a large rainstorm. Those colours are: Green (representing a ponding depth from 0.00 - 0.35 m) Yellow (representing a ponding depth from 0.35 - 0.50 m) Orange (representing a ponding depth from 0.50 to 0.75 m) Red (representing a ponding depth greater than 0.75 m) For a more information regarding the Flood Risk Maps and the City’s proactive strategy see : https://www.edmonton.ca/city_government/documents/RoadsTraffic/City-wide_Flood_Mitigation_Study.pdf This dataset is based on 2014 information and will not be updated further. The model is based on a theoretical, worst-case scenario storm that has never occurred in the Edmonton area. Model Accuracy: For Areas west and central Digital Elevation Model was used from 2004. For the rest of the areas Bare Earth LiDar data was used. The surface data used was set to a horizontal resolution of 2.5 meters with a grid cell of 5m by 5m. This puts the vertical resolution at an accuracy of 0.1 meters. This is a spline fit interpolations model. This is a 1D-1D model with 2D interpolations.The accuracy of the information provided in these data sets is plus or minus 10 cm vertically, and 10 cm horizontally. The 100 year flood was based on the 2015 Edmonton 4 year Chicago storm event over 20 plus neighbourhoods. The data is a collection of the worst case scenario of model runs. This is a common practice for Edmonton drainage models. These models are high level concept and projects determined from this data set will undergo finer, more detailed modeling. Disclaimer: No Warranty with Flood Risk Maps. Your use of the flood risk maps is solely at your own risk, and you are fully responsible for any consequences arising from your use of the flood risk maps. The flood risk maps are provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis, and you agree to use them solely at your own risk. There are no warranties, expressed or implied in respect to the flood risk maps or your use of them, including without limitation, implied warranties and conditions of merchantability and fitness for any particular purpose. Please note that the flood risk maps have been modified from their original source, and that all data visualization on maps are approximate and include only records that can be mapped. Geo Coordinate System: WGS84
* [2014 Flood Mitigation Study - Surface Ponding Depth 0.50 m to 0.75 m (Red) Layer](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/8haq-5m5f) - The depth layer that this spatial data represents is the 0.50 m to 0.75 m Surface Ponding Depth (Red) layer. This raster file was created as a result of a 2013 to 2016 study done for the Edmonton area to determine the vulnerable areas of Edmonton in regards to a 1 in 100 year rainfall event. Due to the constant changing of subsurface infrastructure (adding, upgrading, etc.) combined with the constant changing definition of a 1 in 100 year rainfall event (based on historic rainfall amounts), this raster file reflects the results of a study done in 2016 and should neither suggest previous year’s vulnerabilities nor future year’s vulnerabilities. There are four different colours to show the depth of water that might pool on the ground during a large rainstorm. Those colours are: Green (representing a ponding depth from 0.00 - 0.35 m) Yellow (representing a ponding depth from 0.35 - 0.50 m) Orange (representing a ponding depth from 0.50 to 0.75 m) Red (representing a ponding depth greater than 0.75 m) For a more information regarding the Flood Risk Maps and the City’s proactive strategy see : https://www.edmonton.ca/city_government/documents/RoadsTraffic/City-wide_Flood_Mitigation_Study.pdf This dataset is based on 2014 information and will not be updated further. The model is based on a theoretical, worst-case scenario storm that has never occurred in the Edmonton area. Model Accuracy: For Areas west and central Digital Elevation Model was used from 2004. For the rest of the areas Bare Earth LiDar data was used. The surface data used was set to a horizontal resolution of 2.5 meters with a grid cell of 5m by 5m. This puts the vertical resolution at an accuracy of 0.1 meters. This is a spline fit interpolations model. This is a 1D-1D model with 2D interpolations.The accuracy of the information provided in these data sets is plus or minus 10 cm vertically, and 10 cm horizontally. The 100 year flood was based on the 2015 Edmonton 4 year Chicago storm event over 20 plus neighbourhoods. The data is a collection of the worst case scenario of model runs. This is a common practice for Edmonton drainage models. These models are high level concept and projects determined from this data set will undergo finer, more detailed modeling. Disclaimer: No Warranty with Flood Risk Maps. Your use of the flood risk maps is solely at your own risk, and you are fully responsible for any consequences arising from your use of the flood risk maps. The flood risk maps are provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis, and you agree to use them solely at your own risk. There are no warranties, expressed or implied in respect to the flood risk maps or your use of them, including without limitation, implied warranties and conditions of merchantability and fitness for any particular purpose. Please note that the flood risk maps have been modified from their original source, and that all data visualization on maps are approximate and include only records that can be mapped. Geo Coordinate System: WGS84
* [2014 Flood Mitigation Study - Surface Ponding Depth > 0.75 m (Maroon) Layer](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/fkxj-864d) - The depth layer that this spatial data represents is the > 0.75 m Surface Ponding Depth (Maroon) layer. This raster file was created as a result of a 2013 to 2016 study done for the Edmonton area to determine the vulnerable areas of Edmonton in regards to a 1 in 100 year rainfall event. Due to the constant changing of subsurface infrastructure (adding, upgrading, etc.) combined with the constant changing definition of a 1 in 100 year rainfall event (based on historic rainfall amounts), this raster file reflects the results of a study done in 2016 and should neither suggest previous year’s vulnerabilities nor future year’s vulnerabilities. There are four different colours to show the depth of water that might pool on the ground during a large rainstorm. Those colours are: Green (representing a ponding depth from 0.00 - 0.35 m) Yellow (representing a ponding depth from 0.35 - 0.50 m) Orange (representing a ponding depth from 0.50 to 0.75 m) Red (representing a ponding depth greater than 0.75 m) For a more information regarding the Flood Risk Maps and the City’s proactive strategy see : https://www.edmonton.ca/city_government/documents/RoadsTraffic/City-wide_Flood_Mitigation_Study.pdf This dataset is based on 2014 information and will not be updated further. The model is based on a theoretical, worst-case scenario storm that has never occurred in the Edmonton area. Model Accuracy: For Areas west and central Digital Elevation Model was used from 2004. For the rest of the areas Bare Earth LiDar data was used. The surface data used was set to a horizontal resolution of 2.5 meters with a grid cell of 5m by 5m. This puts the vertical resolution at an accuracy of 0.1 meters. This is a spline fit interpolations model. This is a 1D-1D model with 2D interpolations.The accuracy of the information provided in these data sets is plus or minus 10 cm vertically, and 10 cm horizontally. The 100 year flood was based on the 2015 Edmonton 4 year Chicago storm event over 20 plus neighbourhoods. The data is a collection of the worst case scenario of model runs. This is a common practice for Edmonton drainage models. These models are high level concept and projects determined from this data set will undergo finer, more detailed modeling. Disclaimer: No Warranty with Flood Risk Maps. Your use of the flood risk maps is solely at your own risk, and you are fully responsible for any consequences arising from your use of the flood risk maps. The flood risk maps are provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis, and you agree to use them solely at your own risk. There are no warranties, expressed or implied in respect to the flood risk maps or your use of them, including without limitation, implied warranties and conditions of merchantability and fitness for any particular purpose. Please note that the flood risk maps have been modified from their original source, and that all data visualization on maps are approximate and include only records that can be mapped. Geo Coordinate System: WGS84
* [Seniors Transportation - Edmonton Insight Community](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/qnfr-227f) - This was one single topic among many as part of the December Mixed Topic survey. Test link to view these questions: https://www.edmontoninsightcommunity.ca/R.aspx?a=141&t=1. Open from November 30 - December 09, 2014. At the time the survey was launched survey invitations were sent to 2035 Insight Community Members. 950 members completed the survey which represents a completion rate of 47%. A total of 1049 respondents completed the survey: 950 Insight Community Members and 99 using the anonymous link which will have no demographic info.
* [Emergency Preparedness and Communications - Edmonton Insight Community](https://data.edmonton.ca/view/3h6w-2svz) - This was one single topic among many as part of the April Mixed Topic survey. Test link to view these questions: https://www.edmontoninsightcommunity.ca/R.aspx?a=254&t=1. Open from April 14 - 22, 2015. At the time the survey was launched survey invitations were sent to *** Insight Community Members. 947 members completed the survey which represents a completion rate of 41%. A total of 979 respondents completed the survey: 947 Insight Community Members and 32 using the anonymous link which will have no demographic info.
* [First Place Program](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/fcnj-zhhx) - The City’s First Place program teams with banks and builders to develop attractive townhouses on land declared surplus by school boards in conjunction with an extensive public information and engagement process. 20 school sites (https://www.edmonton.ca/city_government/urban_planning_and_design/surplus-school-building-sites.aspx) in 19 neighbourhoods were declared surplus in 2006 and have been designated for the First Place housing program. Completed projects across Edmonton have allowed many people to realize the dream of home ownership (https://www.edmonton.ca/programs_services/housing/first-place-stories.aspx) while integrating with communities that helped design the look and “fit” of the developments. These families benefit from the opportunity to call a place their own and get ahead financially, but the community at large benefits too. Owning a home keeps families rooted in neighbourhoods, something that's needed for communities to flourish over time. The homes are market priced, with a five-year deferral on the land portion of the mortgage, making them more accessible to first time buyers. A public engagement (https://www.edmonton.ca/programs_services/housing/community-engagement-first-place.aspx) process precedes development, along with opportunities for community involvement in project design. For more information, please go to: https://www.edmonton.ca/programs_services/housing/first-place.aspx
* [First Place Program - Builder Map](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/9zhj-n6p8) - The City’s First Place program teams with banks and builders to develop attractive townhouses on land declared surplus by school boards in conjunction with an extensive public information and engagement process. 20 school sites (https://www.edmonton.ca/city_government/urban_planning_and_design/surplus-school-building-sites.aspx) in 19 neighbourhoods were declared surplus in 2006 and have been designated for the First Place housing program. Completed projects across Edmonton have allowed many people to realize the dream of home ownership (https://www.edmonton.ca/programs_services/housing/first-place-stories.aspx) while integrating with communities that helped design the look and “fit” of the developments. These families benefit from the opportunity to call a place their own and get ahead financially, but the community at large benefits too. Owning a home keeps families rooted in neighbourhoods, something that's needed for communities to flourish over time. The homes are market priced, with a five-year deferral on the land portion of the mortgage, making them more accessible to first time buyers. A public engagement (https://www.edmonton.ca/programs_services/housing/community-engagement-first-place.aspx) process precedes development, along with opportunities for community involvement in project design. For more information, please go to: https://www.edmonton.ca/programs_services/housing/first-place.aspx
* [Driver Feedback Sign - DFS114](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/gtdw-9qqh) - Driver Feedback Sign DFS114 Latitude: 53.55408
Longitude: -113.50829 The City has a number of Driver Feedback Signs (DFS) installed around the city. These units collect data as traffic approaches them and in some cases may display a message or a speed that is being detected. Also, these units are radar based and can only track one vehicle at a time (strongest signal). Due to the number of DFS installations combined with the volume of data collected, each DFS has its own dataset. Details of how the data is collected by the DFS are as follows:
- Data is accumulated and reported in 15 minute intervals
- Vehicle speeds are captured/reported in speed intervals (bins)
- Speed range/interval for the bins are determined by parameters/settings set for the DFS (Minimum/Maximum Speed Detection Setting)
- Two speed values are recorded for every vehicle - a Highest Speed Detected and a Slowest Speed Detected (explaining why there are two vehicle counts)
- The bins go from Bin 1 to Bin 10. Bin 1 can also be referred to a LO BIN and Bin 10 can also be referred to as HIGH BIN. Things to note: DFS devices are not to be used as or confused with traffic counters, as they are not.
DFS devices have a minimum detectable speed of approximately 6 km/hr.
DFS devices have a maximum (theoretical) detectable speed of approximately 225 km/hr.
DFS devices are programmable with different parameters that can also follow a timed schedule.
* [Driver Feedback Sign - DFS115](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/yrzr-ta5n) - Driver Feedback Sign DFS115 Latitude: 53.56693
Longitude: -113.41017 The City has a number of Driver Feedback Signs (DFS) installed around the city. These units collect data as traffic approaches them and in some cases may display a message or a speed that is being detected. Also, these units are radar based and can only track one vehicle at a time (strongest signal). Due to the number of DFS installations combined with the volume of data collected, each DFS has its own dataset. Details of how the data is collected by the DFS are as follows:
- Data is accumulated and reported in 15 minute intervals
- Vehicle speeds are captured/reported in speed intervals (bins)
- Speed range/interval for the bins are determined by parameters/settings set for the DFS (Minimum/Maximum Speed Detection Setting)
- Two speed values are recorded for every vehicle - a Highest Speed Detected and a Slowest Speed Detected (explaining why there are two vehicle counts)
- The bins go from Bin 1 to Bin 10. Bin 1 can also be referred to a LO BIN and Bin 10 can also be referred to as HIGH BIN. Things to note: DFS devices are not to be used as or confused with traffic counters, as they are not.
DFS devices have a minimum detectable speed of approximately 6 km/hr.
DFS devices have a maximum (theoretical) detectable speed of approximately 225 km/hr.
DFS devices are programmable with different parameters that can also follow a timed schedule.
* [Driver Feedback Sign - DFS121](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/y8e2-69az) - Driver Feedback Sign DFS121 Latitude: 53.62863
Longitude: -113.55898 The City has a number of Driver Feedback Signs (DFS) installed around the city. These units collect data as traffic approaches them and in some cases may display a message or a speed that is being detected. Also, these units are radar based and can only track one vehicle at a time (strongest signal). Due to the number of DFS installations combined with the volume of data collected, each DFS has its own dataset. Details of how the data is collected by the DFS are as follows:
- Data is accumulated and reported in 15 minute intervals
- Vehicle speeds are captured/reported in speed intervals (bins)
- Speed range/interval for the bins are determined by parameters/settings set for the DFS (Minimum/Maximum Speed Detection Setting)
- Two speed values are recorded for every vehicle - a Highest Speed Detected and a Slowest Speed Detected (explaining why there are two vehicle counts)
- The bins go from Bin 1 to Bin 10. Bin 1 can also be referred to a LO BIN and Bin 10 can also be referred to as HIGH BIN. Things to note: DFS devices are not to be used as or confused with traffic counters, as they are not.
DFS devices have a minimum detectable speed of approximately 6 km/hr.
DFS devices have a maximum (theoretical) detectable speed of approximately 225 km/hr.
DFS devices are programmable with different parameters that can also follow a timed schedule.
* [Driver Feedback Sign - DFS117](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/j48b-ksjq) - Driver Feedback Sign DFS117 Latitude: 53.56279
Longitude: -113.4916 The City has a number of Driver Feedback Signs (DFS) installed around the city. These units collect data as traffic approaches them and in some cases may display a message or a speed that is being detected. Also, these units are radar based and can only track one vehicle at a time (strongest signal). Due to the number of DFS installations combined with the volume of data collected, each DFS has its own dataset. Details of how the data is collected by the DFS are as follows:
- Data is accumulated and reported in 15 minute intervals
- Vehicle speeds are captured/reported in speed intervals (bins)
- Speed range/interval for the bins are determined by parameters/settings set for the DFS (Minimum/Maximum Speed Detection Setting)
- Two speed values are recorded for every vehicle - a Highest Speed Detected and a Slowest Speed Detected (explaining why there are two vehicle counts)
- The bins go from Bin 1 to Bin 10. Bin 1 can also be referred to a LO BIN and Bin 10 can also be referred to as HIGH BIN. Things to note: DFS devices are not to be used as or confused with traffic counters, as they are not.
DFS devices have a minimum detectable speed of approximately 6 km/hr.
DFS devices have a maximum (theoretical) detectable speed of approximately 225 km/hr.
DFS devices are programmable with different parameters that can also follow a timed schedule.
* [Driver Feedback Sign - DFS122](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/sux4-4rga) - Driver Feedback Sign DFS122 Latitude: 53.59967
Longitude: -113.52378 The City has a number of Driver Feedback Signs (DFS) installed around the city. These units collect data as traffic approaches them and in some cases may display a message or a speed that is being detected. Also, these units are radar based and can only track one vehicle at a time (strongest signal). Due to the number of DFS installations combined with the volume of data collected, each DFS has its own dataset. Details of how the data is collected by the DFS are as follows:
- Data is accumulated and reported in 15 minute intervals
- Vehicle speeds are captured/reported in speed intervals (bins)
- Speed range/interval for the bins are determined by parameters/settings set for the DFS (Minimum/Maximum Speed Detection Setting)
- Two speed values are recorded for every vehicle - a Highest Speed Detected and a Slowest Speed Detected (explaining why there are two vehicle counts)
- The bins go from Bin 1 to Bin 10. Bin 1 can also be referred to a LO BIN and Bin 10 can also be referred to as HIGH BIN. Things to note: DFS devices are not to be used as or confused with traffic counters, as they are not.
DFS devices have a minimum detectable speed of approximately 6 km/hr.
DFS devices have a maximum (theoretical) detectable speed of approximately 225 km/hr.
DFS devices are programmable with different parameters that can also follow a timed schedule.
* [Edible Fruit Trees](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/dsgm-wamx) - Please Note: Citizens are welcome to harvest from fruit trees on COE property with full understanding of the following: 1. No damage or harm is caused to the tree including broken branches, pruning or removal of any woody materials 2. Citizens assume responsibilities for their own safety: a) Possible injury from the harvesting activity, safety while working on or near boulevards or natural areas b) Possible mis-identification of berries and use of products from harvested product 3. Possible exposure: Residue of chemicals such as pesticides, herbicides or other chemicals from the environment or soil may be present on or in the fruit, as a result of over-spray from either public or private property. It is best to wash the fruit thoroughly before consumption. List of all trees owned and maintained by the City of Edmonton. Note - There are about 320,000 records. It may take some time to load everything. The following link - https://www.opentreemap.org/edmonton/map/ is an online map database of trees in Edmonton. Individuals, community groups, and government can collaboratively create an accurate and informative inventory of the trees in their communities.
* [2014 Flood Mitigation Study - Surface Ponding Depth Map](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/jtx5-h7iw) - This map is a representation of each depth layers in the Surface Ponding map from the 2014 Flood Mitigation Study. This map representation was created as a result of a 2013 to 2016 study done for the Edmonton area to determine the vulnerable areas of Edmonton in regards to a 1 in 100 year rainfall event. Due to the constant changing of subsurface infrastructure (adding, upgrading, etc.) combined with the constant changing definition of a 1 in 100 year rainfall event (based on historic rainfall amounts), this raster file reflects the results of a study done in 2016 and should neither suggest previous year’s vulnerabilities nor future year’s vulnerabilities. There are four different colours to show the depth of water that might pool on the ground during a large rainstorm. Those colours are: Green (representing a ponding depth from 0.00 - 0.35 m) Yellow (representing a ponding depth from 0.35 - 0.50 m) Orange (representing a ponding depth from 0.50 to 0.75 m) Red (representing a ponding depth greater than 0.75 m) For a more information regarding the Flood Risk Maps and the City’s proactive strategy see : https://www.edmonton.ca/city_government/documents/RoadsTraffic/City-wide_Flood_Mitigation_Study.pdf This dataset is based on 2014 information and will not be updated further. The model is based on a theoretical, worst-case scenario storm that has never occurred in the Edmonton area. Model Accuracy: For Areas west and central Digital Elevation Model was used from 2004. For the rest of the areas Bare Earth LiDar data was used. The surface data used was set to a horizontal resolution of 2.5 meters with a grid cell of 5m by 5m. This puts the vertical resolution at an accuracy of 0.1 meters. This is a spline fit interpolations model. This is a 1D-1D model with 2D interpolations.The accuracy of the information provided in these data sets is plus or minus 10 cm vertically, and 10 cm horizontally. The 100 year flood was based on the 2015 Edmonton 4 year Chicago storm event over 20 plus neighbourhoods. The data is a collection of the worst case scenario of model runs. This is a common practice for Edmonton drainage models. These models are high level concept and projects determined from this data set will undergo finer, more detailed modeling. Disclaimer: No Warranty with Flood Risk Maps. Your use of the flood risk maps is solely at your own risk, and you are fully responsible for any consequences arising from your use of the flood risk maps. The flood risk maps are provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis, and you agree to use them solely at your own risk. There are no warranties, expressed or implied in respect to the flood risk maps or your use of them, including without limitation, implied warranties and conditions of merchantability and fitness for any particular purpose. Please note that the flood risk maps have been modified from their original source, and that all data visualization on maps are approximate and include only records that can be mapped. Geo Coordinate System: WGS84
* [Mosquitoes Trap Data](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/5zeu-wkpv) - Capture results of mosquitoes from various locations in Edmonton. These collections are from standard New Jersey light traps that are commonly used to record changes in abundance of mosquitoes before and after control campaigns and to compare seasonal and annual fluctuations in population. Since not all mosquito species are attracted equally to light traps, the City uses a variety of other trapping and survey methods (with their own limitations) to monitor mosquitoes. Not all trap collection sites are factored into the historical averages. Some data can be incomplete due to trap failure. Some trap locations change over time. Trap collections reflect, not absolute population levels, but mosquito activity, which is influenced by changing environmental conditions (temperature, humidity, wind, etc.). The weekly averages do not include any male mosquitoes or any females of species that do not typically bite people. Each data set reflects the mosquito activity of the week previous to the collection date. To complement this dataset, there is the Rainfall Guage data which measures rainfall data in the Greater Edmonton area - https://data.edmonton.ca/Environmental-Services/Rainfall-Gauge-Results/7fus-qa4r/edit_metadata
* [First Place Program - Status Map](https://data.edmonton.ca/d/sfy6-8tge) - The City’s First Place program teams with banks and builders to develop attractive townhouses on land declared surplus by school boards in conjunction with an extensive public information and engagement process. 20 school sites (https://www.edmonton.ca/city_government/urban_planning_and_design/surplus-school-building-sites.aspx) in 19 neighbourhoods were declared surplus in 2006 and have been designated for the First Place housing program. Completed projects across Edmonton have allowed many people to realize the dream of home ownership (https://www.edmonton.ca/programs_services/housing/first-place-stories.aspx) while integrating with communities that helped design the look and “fit” of the developments. These families benefit from the opportunity to call a place their own and get ahead financially, but the community at large benefits too. Owning a home keeps families rooted in neighbourhoods, something that's needed for communities to flourish over time. The homes are market priced, with a five-year deferral on the land portion of the mortgage, making them more accessible to first time buyers. A public engagement (https://www.edmonton.ca/programs_services/housing/community-engagement-first-place.aspx) process precedes development, along with opportunities for community involvement in project design. For more information, please go to: https://www.edmonton.ca/programs_services/housing/first-place.aspx
