# data.oaklandnet.com health datasets
* [Rollup Chronic Disease Preventable Hospitalization Rates](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/jsw4-caqx) - This Indicator measures the age-adjusted rate of chronic diseases preventable hospitalizations. “Preventable hospitalizations” are inpatient hospital stays that could have been avoided with improved access to and quality of outpatient care. They are measured by prevention quality indicators (PQIs). PQI #92, the chronic composite, is a summary measure which captures preventable hospitalizations from diabetes-related, respiratory-related and circulatory system-related preventable hospitalizations for adults, such as uncontrolled diabetes, asthma, and heart failure.(Source:http://www.healthyalamedacounty.org/indicators/index/view?indicatorId=2480&locale Id=238)

This Indicator compares zip codes in which more than 60% of the population is non-White to those in which more than 60% of the population is White. The third category of zip codes is those in which the population is racially and ethnically mixed. Data is from 2013 through the third quarter of 2015.* [Alameda County Census Tract Results 2010](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/az9z-tyn9) - Alameda County US Census Results 2010* [Old Indust Land Use.shp](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/55b4-zmc2) - Summary: This layer was created to depict industrial land areas present in 1968. The layer is intended to contribute to a larger mapping and modeling effort designed to spatially depict land areas that may be sources of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) or mercury in the San Francisco Bay Area. The land areas are termed “old industrial” due to their presence prior to roughly 1970, the timeframe when PCB production in the U.S. ceased. Old industrial land parcels in Alameda, Contra Costa, San Mateo, Santa Clara and Solano counties are depicted.  Parcels in the datalayer are defined via the most currently available assessor’s parcel data for each county.* [HIV Diagnoses](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/fsbf-xbue) - This Indicator measures the rate of new HIV diagnoses per 100,000 population for each racial and ethnic group from 2014-2016 in Alameda County. The Alameda County Public Health Department’s HIV Epidemiology and Surveillance Unit is required to report new HIV diagnoses, which is a proxy for new HIV transmissions which are difficult to capture.* [Homeownership with Mortgage](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/3vtg-hnzp) - This Indicator measures the percent of homeowners who have a mortgage or loan on their homes. Outstanding debt distinguishes these homeowners from those who own their homes free and clear and no longer need to make mortgage or loan payments.* [Chronic Disease Preventable Hospitalizations](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/r976-i4je) - This Indicator measures the age-adjusted rate of chronic diseases preventable hospitalizations. “Preventable hospitalizations” are inpatient hospital stays that could have been avoided with improved access to and quality of outpatient care. They are measured by prevention quality indicators (PQIs). PQI #92, the chronic composite, is a summary measure which captures preventable hospitalizations from diabetes-related, respiratory-related and circulatory system-related preventable hospitalizations for adults, such as uncontrolled diabetes, asthma, and heart failure.(Source:http://www.healthyalamedacounty.org/indicators/index/view?indicatorId=2480&locale Id=238)

This Indicator compares zip codes in which more than 60% of the population is non-White to those in which more than 60% of the population is White. The third category of zip codes is those in which the population is racially and ethnically mixed. Data is from 2013 through the third quarter of 2015.* [Equity Indicators by Least Equitable Score](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/8w8x-ih9t) - The Indicators chosen represent the best proxies we could find for the complex disparity themes we set out to measure. The following criteria were used to determining the indicators included in each of the topics in the final framework:
1. Data is available, high quality, and from a reliable source.
2. We will be able to calculate change over time (i.e., data is updated and accessible on an
annual basis and changes from year to year can be meaningfully interpreted).
3. There is a strong causal model for why this Indicator matters (i.e., we understand the
context behind the Indicator and how disparities affect people).
4. The data accurately represents the impact of inequity on people’s lives (e.g., not
measuring quantity when what matters is quality).* [Acute Preventable Hospitalizations](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/dv3y-x4i6) - This Indicator measures the age adjusted rate of acute preventable hospitalizations. “‘Preventable hospitalizations’ are inpatient hospital stays that could have been avoided with improved access to and quality of outpatient care. They are measured by prevention quality indicators (PQIs). PQI #91, the acute composite, is a summary measure which includes bacterial pneumonia, urinary tract infection, and dehydration preventable hospitalizations for adults. ”(Source:http://www.healthyalamedacounty.org/indicators/index/view?indicatorId=2480&localeId=2 38)

This Indicator compares zip codes in which more than 60% of the population is non-White to those in which more than 60% of the population is White. The third category of zip codes is those in which the population is racially and ethnically mixed. Data is from 2013 through the third quarter of 2015.* [HIV Diagnoses](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/fsbf-xbue) - This Indicator measures the rate of new HIV diagnoses per 100,000 population for each racial and ethnic group from 2014-2016 in Alameda County. The Alameda County Public Health Department’s HIV Epidemiology and Surveillance Unit is required to report new HIV diagnoses, which is a proxy for new HIV transmissions which are difficult to capture.* [Homeownership with Mortgage](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/3vtg-hnzp) - This Indicator measures the percent of homeowners who have a mortgage or loan on their homes. Outstanding debt distinguishes these homeowners from those who own their homes free and clear and no longer need to make mortgage or loan payments.* [Chronic Disease Preventable Hospitalizations](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/r976-i4je) - This Indicator measures the age-adjusted rate of chronic diseases preventable hospitalizations. “Preventable hospitalizations” are inpatient hospital stays that could have been avoided with improved access to and quality of outpatient care. They are measured by prevention quality indicators (PQIs). PQI #92, the chronic composite, is a summary measure which captures preventable hospitalizations from diabetes-related, respiratory-related and circulatory system-related preventable hospitalizations for adults, such as uncontrolled diabetes, asthma, and heart failure.(Source:http://www.healthyalamedacounty.org/indicators/index/view?indicatorId=2480&locale Id=238)

This Indicator compares zip codes in which more than 60% of the population is non-White to those in which more than 60% of the population is White. The third category of zip codes is those in which the population is racially and ethnically mixed. Data is from 2013 through the third quarter of 2015.* [Acute Preventable Hospitalization Rates by Race/Ethnicity of Zip Codes](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/mqzb-hfrs) - This Indicator measures the age adjusted rate of acute preventable hospitalizations. “‘Preventable hospitalizations’ are inpatient hospital stays that could have been avoided with improved access to and quality of outpatient care. They are measured by prevention quality indicators (PQIs). PQI #91, the acute composite, is a summary measure which includes bacterial pneumonia, urinary tract infection, and dehydration preventable hospitalizations for adults. ”(Source:http://www.healthyalamedacounty.org/indicators/index/view?indicatorId=2480&localeId=2 38)

This Indicator compares zip codes in which more than 60% of the population is non-White to those in which more than 60% of the population is White. The third category of zip codes is those in which the population is racially and ethnically mixed. Data is from 2013 through the third quarter of 2015.* [Rollup Chronic Disease Preventable Hospitalization Rates](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/jsw4-caqx) - This Indicator measures the age-adjusted rate of chronic diseases preventable hospitalizations. “Preventable hospitalizations” are inpatient hospital stays that could have been avoided with improved access to and quality of outpatient care. They are measured by prevention quality indicators (PQIs). PQI #92, the chronic composite, is a summary measure which captures preventable hospitalizations from diabetes-related, respiratory-related and circulatory system-related preventable hospitalizations for adults, such as uncontrolled diabetes, asthma, and heart failure.(Source:http://www.healthyalamedacounty.org/indicators/index/view?indicatorId=2480&locale Id=238)

This Indicator compares zip codes in which more than 60% of the population is non-White to those in which more than 60% of the population is White. The third category of zip codes is those in which the population is racially and ethnically mixed. Data is from 2013 through the third quarter of 2015.* [Employment in High Wage Industries](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/ee5i-a5mw) - This Indicator is measured by the percent of employed individuals who are not employed in industries with a mean annual wage of at least $80,000. In 2016, these industries included management occupations; legal occupations; healthcare practitioners and technical occupations; computer and mathematical occupations; architecture and engineering occupations; life, physical, and social science occupations; and business and financial operations occupations. (Source: Occupational Employment Statistics, CA Employment Development Department https://data.edd.ca.gov/Wages/Occupational-Employment- Statistics-OES-/pwxn-y2g5)* [Chronic Absenteeism](https://data.oaklandnet.com/d/5d4q-57a4) - The measurement is percent of children within OUSD who are chronically absent. Chronic absence is defined as an attendance rate of 90% or less (missing 18 or more days in a 180 day school year), regardless of whether the absences are excused or unexcused. It is not the same as Truancy. Alternative Education schools are not included in the data.* [Affordability](https://data.oaklandnet.com/stories/s/yixc-ceu6) - The affordable housing crisis affects communities around the country, and Oakland is no exception. While many Oaklanders struggle to afford their homes, racial and ethnic minorities face particular challenges in access to affordable housing. The three Indicators in this Topic measure access to stable housing through homeownership, access to financial resources in the form of home loans, and access to rental housing that does not cost more than 30% of household income.* [Physical and Mental Health](https://data.oaklandnet.com/stories/s/tqnm-hn5x) - Physical and mental health encompasses a wide range of health outcomes and can be measured in many different ways. The Indicators in this Topic were chosen to reflect important public health issues that are not captured in other Topics in the Public Health Theme. The first two Indicators measure visits to the emergency department for severe mental illness and for substance abuse. The third Indicator measures new HIV diagnoses in Alameda County. In all three of these Indicators, the greatest disparities are between African American and Asian Oaklanders.* [Access to Preventative Care](https://data.oaklandnet.com/stories/s/nk4s-n4sy) - The Access to Preventive Care Topic includes two Indicators that measure preventable hospitalizations related to acute and chronic disease, and one that measures health insurance. Non-White Oaklanders are more likely to be hospitalized for conditions that could have been prevented by having better access to preventive care. They are also more likely to be uninsured, which is a major deterrent to accessing preventive health services. Poverty and immigration status may make it even more likely for racial and ethnic minorities to lack insurance and forego needed care.* [Enrollment](https://data.oaklandnet.com/stories/s/38i7-qnkz) - The Enrollment Topic includes three Indicators that measure racial and ethnic disparities in preschool enrollment, chronic absenteeism, and high school on-time completion. The first Indicator measures disparities in preschool enrollment between Latinos and Whites. The second Indicator measures disparities in chronic absenteeism between African Americans and Asians. The third Indicators measures disparities in how many high school students are still enrolled after four years between Latinos and Whites.* [Public Health](https://data.oaklandnet.com/stories/s/6imx-ti2t) - Public health relates to many of the other Themes in the Equity Indicators framework. Public health outcomes are tied to housing quality, environment, and neighborhood. Social determinants of health include poverty, employment, and educational attainment. The public health field has historically been dedicated to understanding and addressing racial and ethnic disparities in health outcomes, but the complexity of these issues contributes to the persistence of inequity.* [Mortality](https://data.oaklandnet.com/stories/s/34sv-75nz) - Mortality is a widely recognized measure of population health. This Topic includes an Indicator on infant mortality, which is particularly important to public health and relates to other health outcomes, including access to care. The other two Indicators in this Topic, life expectancy and premature death, reveal disparities in how long individuals are expected to live and whether they are able to meet those expectations. In all three Indicators, African Americans have the worst outcomes.