# datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov health datasets
* [State's Attorney Felony Cases - Initiation Results by Offense Type and Defendant Age](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/gs3j-9swg) - The Initiation results data presented here reflects all of the arrests that came through the door of the State's Attorneys Office (SAO). Included in this data set are the defendant counts by age and initiation, their associated offense type, and year.

An initiation is how an arrest turns into a “case” in the courts. Most cases are initiated through a process known as felony review, in which SAO attorneys make a decision whether or not to prosecute. Cases may also be indicted by a grand jury or, in narcotics cases, filed directly by law enforcement (labeled "BOND SET (Narcotics)" in this data). Included in this data set are the defendant counts by initiation and year. This data includes felony cases handled by the Criminal, Narcotics, and Special Prosecution Bureaus. It does not include information about cases processed through the Juvenile Justice and Civil Actions Bureaus.* [Health and Hospitals System-2009 Total Outpatient Registrations By ZIP](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/c62y-v8ri) - Enclosed data represents outpatient registrations including hospital ancillary services (e.g. laboratory, radiology, physical therapy, dialysis), primary and speciality care clinics (Fantus, Stroger Speciality Clinic, Ambulatory Screening Center, Prieto, Austin, Logan Square, Cicero, Vista, Child Advocacy Center, Woodlawn Adult Clinic, Englewood, Morton East, Near South, Sengstacke, Southside Pediatrics, Southside OB, Cottage Grove, Lincoln Robbins, Woody Winston, and OFH Speciality Clinic) same day surgery, CORE center and emergency department registrations.

2,330 of 2009 and 3,093 of 2008 zip code registrations are not included in this data file due to privacy concerns when 10 registrations or less occurred per zip code* [Health and Hosptials--2008 Total Outpatient Registrations By ZIP](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/h2ke-7kt8) - Enclosed data represents outpatient registrations including hospital ancillary services (e.g. laboratory, radiology, physical therapy, dialysis), primary and speciality care clinics (Fantus, Stroger Speciality Clinic, Ambulatory Screening Center, Prieto, Austin, Logan Square, Cicero, Vista, Child Advocacy Center, Woodlawn Adult Clinic, Englewood, Morton East, Near South, Sengstacke, Southside Pediatrics, Southside OB, Cottage Grove, Lincoln Robbins, Woody Winston, and OFH Speciality Clinic) same day surgery, CORE center and emergency department registrations.

2,330 of 2009 and 3,093 of 2008 zip code registrations are not included in this data file due to privacy concerns when 10 registrations or less occurred per zip code* [Department of Revenue - Home Rule Taxes Collected - December 2010 to June 2011](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/csu2-ydhj) - Total Home Rule Taxes collected per month. Data covers December 2010 through June 2011.* [Health & Hospitals System - Outpatient Registrations, by ZIP - Fiscal Year 2011 Incomplete](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/3ghu-xq7n) - Data for 2011 through June 2011. Enclosed data represents outpatient registrations including hospital ancillary services (e.g. laboratory, radiology, physical therapy, dialysis), primary and speciality care clinics (Fantus, Stroger Speciality Clinic, Ambulatory Screening Center, Prieto, Austin, Logan Square, Cicero, Vista, Child Advocacy Center, Woodlawn Adult Clinic, Englewood, Morton East, Near South, Sengstacke, Southside Pediatrics, Southside OB, Cottage Grove, Lincoln Robbins, Woody Winston, and OFH Speciality Clinic) same day surgery, CORE center and emergency department registrations* [State's Attorney Felony Cases - Initiation Results by Offense Type and Defendant Race](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/vhdq-rf99) - The Initiation results data presented here reflects all of the arrests that came through the door of the State's Attorneys Office (SAO). Included in this data set are the defendant counts by race and initiation, their associated offense type, and year.

An initiation is how an arrest turns into a “case” in the courts. Most cases are initiated through a process known as felony review, in which SAO attorneys make a decision whether or not to prosecute. Cases may also be indicted by a grand jury or, in narcotics cases, filed directly by law enforcement (labeled "BOND SET (Narcotics)" in this data). Included in this data set are the defendant counts by initiation and year. This data includes felony cases handled by the Criminal, Narcotics, and Special Prosecution Bureaus. It does not include information about cases processed through the Juvenile Justice and Civil Actions Bureaus.* [Historical - Department of Revenue - Businesses Subject to Home Rule Taxes - 2011 through September 8th](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/cpgn-z9js) - This dataset is no longer updated. For updated datasets please search for "Registered with the Cook County Department of Revenue." This dataset may be removed in the future. A listing of the businesses in unincorporated Cook County subject to Liquor, Gasoline, New Motor Vehicle, Dealer Use, Diesel, Amusement, and Parking Home Rule Taxes. Data last updated September 08, 2011* [Adoption & Child Custody Advocacy - Home Investigation Data - 2008](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/tjzn-e5cs) - The department is court ordered to complete a home investigation to determine if potential adoptive family whom is seeking permanency is suitable for placement. This data represents the number of home investigations undertaken by this office in 2008.* [Health & Hospitals System - Outpatient Registrations, by Month, by ZIP - Fiscal Year 2009](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/8sns-q4rm) - Enclosed data represents outpatient registrations including hospital ancillary services (e.g. laboratory, radiology, physical therapy, dialysis), primary and speciality care clinics (Fantus, Stroger Speciality Clinic, Ambulatory Screening Center, Prieto, Austin, Logan Square, Cicero, Vista, Child Advocacy Center, Woodlawn Adult Clinic, Englewood, Morton East, Near South, Sengstacke, Southside Pediatrics, Southside OB, Cottage Grove, Lincoln Robbins, Woody Winston, and OFH Speciality Clinic) same day surgery, CORE center and emergency department registrations.

2,330 of 2009 and 3,093 of 2008 zip code registrations are not included in this data file due to privacy concerns when 10 registrations or less occurred per zip code.* [State's Attorney Felony Cases - Initiation Results by Offense Type and Defendant Age](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/gs3j-9swg) - The Initiation results data presented here reflects all of the arrests that came through the door of the State's Attorneys Office (SAO). Included in this data set are the defendant counts by age and initiation, their associated offense type, and year.

An initiation is how an arrest turns into a “case” in the courts. Most cases are initiated through a process known as felony review, in which SAO attorneys make a decision whether or not to prosecute. Cases may also be indicted by a grand jury or, in narcotics cases, filed directly by law enforcement (labeled "BOND SET (Narcotics)" in this data). Included in this data set are the defendant counts by initiation and year. This data includes felony cases handled by the Criminal, Narcotics, and Special Prosecution Bureaus. It does not include information about cases processed through the Juvenile Justice and Civil Actions Bureaus.* [Health and Hospitals System-2009 Total Outpatient Registrations By ZIP](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/c62y-v8ri) - Enclosed data represents outpatient registrations including hospital ancillary services (e.g. laboratory, radiology, physical therapy, dialysis), primary and speciality care clinics (Fantus, Stroger Speciality Clinic, Ambulatory Screening Center, Prieto, Austin, Logan Square, Cicero, Vista, Child Advocacy Center, Woodlawn Adult Clinic, Englewood, Morton East, Near South, Sengstacke, Southside Pediatrics, Southside OB, Cottage Grove, Lincoln Robbins, Woody Winston, and OFH Speciality Clinic) same day surgery, CORE center and emergency department registrations.

2,330 of 2009 and 3,093 of 2008 zip code registrations are not included in this data file due to privacy concerns when 10 registrations or less occurred per zip code* [State's Attorney Felony Cases - Initiation Results by Offense Type and Defendant Race](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/vhdq-rf99) - The Initiation results data presented here reflects all of the arrests that came through the door of the State's Attorneys Office (SAO). Included in this data set are the defendant counts by race and initiation, their associated offense type, and year.

An initiation is how an arrest turns into a “case” in the courts. Most cases are initiated through a process known as felony review, in which SAO attorneys make a decision whether or not to prosecute. Cases may also be indicted by a grand jury or, in narcotics cases, filed directly by law enforcement (labeled "BOND SET (Narcotics)" in this data). Included in this data set are the defendant counts by initiation and year. This data includes felony cases handled by the Criminal, Narcotics, and Special Prosecution Bureaus. It does not include information about cases processed through the Juvenile Justice and Civil Actions Bureaus.* [Historical - Department of Revenue - Businesses Subject to Home Rule Taxes - 2011 through September 8th](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/cpgn-z9js) - This dataset is no longer updated. For updated datasets please search for "Registered with the Cook County Department of Revenue." This dataset may be removed in the future. A listing of the businesses in unincorporated Cook County subject to Liquor, Gasoline, New Motor Vehicle, Dealer Use, Diesel, Amusement, and Parking Home Rule Taxes. Data last updated September 08, 2011* [State's Attorney Felony Cases - Initiation Results by Offense Type and Defendant Gender](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/jygh-f4sn) - The Initiation results data presented here reflects all of the arrests that came through the door of the State's Attorneys Office (SAO).  Included in this data set are the defendant counts by gender and initiation, their associated offense type, and year.

An initiation is how an arrest turns into a “case” in the courts. Most cases are initiated through a process known as felony review, in which SAO attorneys make a decision whether or not to prosecute. Cases may also be indicted by a grand jury or, in narcotics cases, filed directly by law enforcement (labeled "BOND SET (Narcotics)" in this data). Included in this data set are the defendant counts by initiation and year. This data includes felony cases handled by the Criminal, Narcotics, and Special Prosecution Bureaus. It does not include information about cases processed through the Juvenile Justice and Civil Actions Bureaus.* [Adoption & Child Custody Advocacy - Performance Measures Custody Investigations - 2008](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/7k2b-3t45) - The Department is court ordered to complete a home investigation to determine which home is most suitable for permanency or increased visitation* [Health & Hospitals System - Outpatient Registrations, by Facility, Zip Code, Month - Fiscal Year 2011](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/wege-aen9) - Enclosed data represents outpatient registrations including hospital ancillary services (e.g. laboratory, radiology, physical therapy, dialysis), primary and speciality care clinics (Fantus, Stroger Speciality Clinic, Ambulatory Screening Center, Prieto, Austin, Logan Square, Cicero, Vista, Child Advocacy Center, Woodlawn Adult Clinic, Englewood, Morton East, Near South, Sengstacke, Southside Pediatrics, Southside OB, Cottage Grove, Lincoln Robbins, Woody Winston, and OFH Speciality Clinic) same day surgery, CORE center and emergency department registrations* [State's Attorney Felony Cases - Sentences By Offense Type and Location Type](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/uf6g-sr2x) - The sentencing data presented in this report reflects the judgement imposed by the court on people that have been found guilty. The data is recorded by count, meaning by each individual cause of action, and each count receives a sentence. Included in this data set are the defendant counts by city/suburb and sentence, their associated offense type, and year.* [Medical Examiner - Burial Locations](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/hc2f-evny) - The following page lists the final disposition sites of the indigents buried by the Cook County Medical Examiner’s Office. Homewood Memorial Gardens Cemetery provides Latitude and Longitude coordinates. Mount Olivet provides Grave, Lot, and Block locations.* [Medical Examiner Indigent Cremations](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/f9wk-2wb9) - The following page lists the unclaimed indigents cremated by the Cook County Medical Examiner’s Office.* [Medical Examiner - Unclaimed Persons](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/jmub-3h99) - This dataset contains our most up to date list of Unclaimed Persons found in Cook County.

If you feel you are the next of kin to any of the individuals listed, Please contact Rebeca Perrone, Indigent Coordinator, at 312-997-4403. During regular business hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

Statement of Public Notice: Unclaimed indigents will be cremated or buried at County expense within 90 days of admission to our facility as dictated by the Cook County Medical Examiner Ordinance* [Medical Examiner Case Archive](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/cjeq-bs86) - This contains information about deaths that occurred in Cook County that were under the Medical Examiner’s jurisdiction. Not all deaths that occur in Cook County are reported to the Medical Examiner or fall under the jurisdiction of the Medical Examiner. The Medical Examiner’s Office determines cause and manner of death for those cases that fall under its jurisdiction. Cause of death describes the reason the person died. This dataset includes information from deaths starting in August 2014 to the present, with information updated daily.* [Medical Examiner Case Archive - Data Lens](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/view/b5va-m3rq) - <div>This contains information about deaths that occurred in Cook County that were under the Medical Examiner’s jurisdiction. Not all deaths that occur in Cook County are reported to the Medical Examiner or fall under the jurisdiction of the Medical Examiner. The Medical Examiner’s Office determines cause and manner of death for those cases that fall under its jurisdiction. Cause of death describes the reason the person died. This dataset includes information from deaths starting in August 2014 to the present, with information updated daily.<br></div>* [Medical Examiner Case Archive - Manner of Death Chart](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/jjtx-2ras) - This contains information about deaths that occurred in Cook County that were under the Medical Examiner’s jurisdiction. Not all deaths that occur in Cook County are reported to the Medical Examiner or fall under the jurisdiction of the Medical Examiner. The Medical Examiner’s Office determines cause and manner of death for those cases that fall under its jurisdiction. Cause of death describes the reason the person died. This dataset includes information from deaths starting in August 2014 to the present, with information updated daily.* [Investor Relations - Bond Official Statements](https://datacatalog.cookcountyil.gov/d/d46c-nxy5) - The official statements below provide detailed information about the outstanding bonds issued by the County. The full faith and credit of the County is pledged to the punctual payment of the principal and of interest on General Obligation bonds, with a pledge of home rule sales tax revenues securing the associated sales tax revenue bond issues.