# data.nola.gov health datasets
* [Public Health Clinics](https://data.nola.gov/d/etsp-wac5) - Locations of New Orleans public health clinics* [Certified Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Directory](https://data.nola.gov/d/q42h-ptn2) - This is the City of New Orleans State and Local DBE directory data as of 8/7/18. Only firms identified from either this list or the state directory search here: http://www8.dotd.la.gov/UCP/UCPSearch.aspx are counted toward the DBE participation goal for companies granted procurement opportunities with the City of New Orleans. Recently certified DBE firms should allow 30 calendar days upon approval to appear in the DBE directory. If you are looking for more information about the DBE program with the City of New Orleans, visit https://nola.gov/economic-development/supplier-diversity/.

TERMS OF USE: The information provided in this file is not to be used for unsolicited advertising, spam, or any other unauthorized use. The City of New Orleans makes no claims, promises, or guarantees regarding a certified firm’s competence or capability to perform or enter into a contract. It is the responsibility of the user of the information provided in the Directory to make his/her own determination regarding the capability, competence, and/or limitations of a certified firm, as well as the firm’s ability to do business in the State. The City makes no claims, promises, or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the contents of this web site and expressly disclaims liability for errors and omissions in the contents of this dataset.* [Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Grants](https://data.nola.gov/d/rtej-a36y) - The Office of Community Development manages federal grant money given to New Orleans by taking, selecting, and distributing funds to local service providers. Data below represents funding from the following HUD grants: HOME Investment Partnership Program (HOME) - Owner-occupied Rehabilitation Program, Rental Rehabilitation Program and the CDBG Disaster Recovery Grant - Homebuyer Soft Second Mortgage Program.