# data.strathcona.ca health datasets
* [Child Care Information Bank - Infants (12 to 19 months)](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/mzja-67zd) - A public listing of child care providers and facilities that volunteered to be included in the Strathcona County Child Care Information Bank.  The following data is provided by the public completing an online form and then is validated by staff in the Family and Community Services department.* [2011 Federal Census - Household by Census Tracts, Dissemination Areas, Wards and Urban Service Areas](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/q3f4-qnv7) - The data shows family and household frequency distribution by family, household and dwelling characteristics in four different boundary types. The data was provided by Statistics Canada but it has been sectioned and transposed. The fields come from census profile reports of Statistics Canada and some information may not be available for all the boundaries. The fields have been arranged in the same order as census profile reports. To see a more complete description of the fields click on this link: http://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2011/dp-pd/prof/details/page.cfm?Lang=E&Geo1=CSD&Code1=4811052&Geo2=CD&Code2=4811&Data=Count&SearchText=strathcona%20county&SearchType=Begins&SearchPR=01&B1=All&Custom=&TABID=1
Note: Second to last field in the household and dwelling characteristics section has been excluded to avoid redundancy.* [Child Care Information Bank - Infants (0 to 11 months)](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/p8v3-d3cw) - A public listing of child care providers and facilities that volunteered to be included in the Strathcona County Child Care Information Bank.  The following data is provided by the public completing an online form and then is validated by staff in the Family and Community Services department.* [Child Care Information Bank - Infants (0 to 11 months)](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/wu9b-mnsu) - A public listing of child care providers and facilities that volunteered to be included in the Strathcona County Child Care Information Bank.  The following data is provided by the public completing an online form and then is validated by staff in the Family and Community Services department.* [Child Care Information Bank - School age (5 to 12 years)](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/vnr2-qr5n) - A public listing of child care providers and facilities that volunteered to be included in the Strathcona County Child Care Information Bank.  The following data is provided by the public completing an online form and then is validated by staff in the Family and Community Services department.* [Child Care Information Bank - Infants (12 to 19 months)](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/gzp7-qh9t) - A public listing of child care providers and facilities that volunteered to be included in the Strathcona County Child Care Information Bank.  The following data is provided by the public completing an online form and then is validated by staff in the Family and Community Services department.* [Building Permits - Residential New Construction from 2013](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/ibmx-sy5r) - Map of residential new construction permits after 2013. This dataset complies with the Building & Land Development Specification (BLDS) standard for sharing open data on building and construction permits issued by municipal governments. For more information on the BLDS specification see http://permitdata.org/* [Child Care Information Bank](https://data.strathcona.ca/view/w2qp-iw78) - A public listing of child care providers and facilities that volunteered to be included in the Strathcona County Child Care Information Bank.  The following data is provided by the public completing an online form and then is validated by staff in the Family and Community Services department.

This Bank is not intended to serve as a legal document, but only provides general information about choosing child care.  It is not a replacement for consulting the Child Care Licensing Act nor should it be considered to be a fully authoritative or a comprehensive guide to obtaining child care.  Strathcona County assumes no responsibility to any person or persons for relying on the information contained in this publication, nor shall the County be held liable for any damage caused to any person, whether negligently or otherwise.* [Child Care Information Bank - Toddlers (20 to 35 months)](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/teuc-hia5) - A public listing of child care providers and facilities that volunteered to be included in the Strathcona County Child Care Information Bank.  The following data is provided by the public completing an online form and then is validated by staff in the Family and Community Services department.* [Child Care Information Bank](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/4q7z-nhj6) - A public listing of child care providers and facilities that volunteered to be included in the Strathcona County Child Care Information Bank.  The following data is provided by the public completing an online form and then is validated by staff in the Family and Community Services department.

This Bank is not intended to serve as a legal document, but only provides general information about choosing child care.  It is not a replacement for consulting the Child Care Licensing Act nor should it be considered to be a fully authoritative or a comprehensive guide to obtaining child care.  Strathcona County assumes no responsibility to any person or persons for relying on the information contained in this publication, nor shall the County be held liable for any damage caused to any person, whether negligently or otherwise.* [Building Permits](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/y99k-mxv7) - Building permits from January 1, 1997 to present. This dataset complies with the Building & Land Development Specification (BLDS) standard for sharing open data on building and construction permits issued by municipal governments. For more information on the BLDS specification see http://permitdata.org/* [Child Care Information Bank - Preschoolers (3 to 5 years)](https://data.strathcona.ca/d/xj4t-vwvc) - A public listing of child care providers and facilities that volunteered to be included in the Strathcona County Child Care Information Bank.  The following data is provided by the public completing an online form and then is validated by staff in the Family and Community Services department.