# data.vermont.gov health datasets
* [Medicare hospital spending per patient](https://data.vermont.gov/d/g8ft-etem) - The "Medicare hospital spending per patient (Medicare Spending per Beneficiary)" measure shows whether Medicare spends more, less or about the same per Medicare patient treated in a specific hospital, compared to how much Medicare spends per patient nationally. This measure includes any Medicare Part A and Part B payments made for services provided to a patient during the 3 days prior to the hospital stay, during the stay, and during the 30 days after discharge from the hospital.
* [Medicare Spending per Beneficiary by Hospital](https://data.vermont.gov/d/sgve-cdnx) - The "Medicare hospital spending per patient (Medicare Spending per Beneficiary)" measure shows whether Medicare spends more, less or about the same per Medicare patient treated in a specific hospital, compared to how much Medicare spends per patient nationally. This measure includes any Medicare Part A and Part B payments made for services provided to a patient during the 3 days prior to the hospital stay, during the stay, and during the 30 days after discharge from the hospital.
* [Vermont Health Data Inventory (VHCIP Project)](https://data.vermont.gov/d/fvt4-gevd) - This health data inventory is the result of work conducted for the Vermont Health Care Innovation Project. While the goal of a Vermont Health Data Inventory is a unified data source for health care data, this project is just the first step in moving toward that goal. A unified data source would provide a gateway or portal to the diverse health data in Vermont. This includes many kinds of health related data: the all-payer claims dataset;health expenditures; clinical datasets; survey data; vital records; and epidemiologic data. It is the intent that this initial inventory project will inform this goal.
