# data.colorado.gov health datasets
* [Eagle County](https://data.colorado.gov/d/xcch-y9ss) - This dataset includes all non-24 hour licensed child care facilities in the State of Colorado. It is updated monthly, and is intended for public use. It includes CDHS-issued child care license numbers, legal business names as they appear in the licensing application, the types of service the programs provide, the physical location address es of the programs as they appear in the licensing application, the longitude-latitude coordinate values derived from geocoding services and spatial QA, the valid Colorado Shines quality rating levels (if applicable), total licensed capacities, and CCCAP utilization. Disclaimer: The State of Colorado, the Colorado Department of Human Services, and the Office of Early Childhood make no representations or warranties expressed or implied, with respect to the use of data provided herewith regardless of its format or the means of its transmission. There is no guarantee or representation to the user as to the accuracy, currency, suitability, or reliability of this data for any purpose. The user accepts the data “as is”. The State of Colorado assumes no responsibility for loss or damage incurred as a result of any user reliance on this data. Users of this information should review or consult the primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability of the information. The State of Colorado does not necessarily endorse any interpretations or products derived from the data.
* [Rio Grande Child Care Providers](https://data.colorado.gov/d/3h8c-iwn3) - This dataset includes all non-24 hour licensed child care facilities in the State of Colorado. It is updated twice a month, and is intended for public use. It includes CDHS-issued child care license numbers, legal business names as they appear in the licensing application, the types of service the programs provide, the physical location address es of the programs as they appear in the licensing application, the longitude-latitude coordinate values derived from geocoding services and spatial QA, the valid Colorado Shines quality rating levels (if applicable), total licensed capacities, and CCCAP utilization and fiscal agreement. Disclaimer: The State of Colorado, the Colorado Department of Human Services, and the Office of Early Childhood make no representations or warranties expressed or implied, with respect to the use of data provided herewith regardless of its format or the means of its transmission. There is no guarantee or representation to the user as to the accuracy, currency, suitability, or reliability of this data for any purpose. The user accepts the data “as is”. The State of Colorado assumes no responsibility for loss or damage incurred as a result of any user reliance on this data. Users of this information should review or consult the primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability of the information. The State of Colorado does not necessarily endorse any interpretations or products derived from the data.
* [NA_View](https://data.colorado.gov/d/w8ns-c3a4) - This data is updated nightly and is intended for research purposes only. The Division of Professions and Occupations makes no guarantee as to the accuracy or completeness of the information. If you are looking for consumer protection information, the primary source for this data, updated in real time, is available at: • Individual search information: www.colorado.gov/dora/licensing/Lookup/GenerateRoster.aspx • Group Download information: www.colorado.gov/dora/licensing/Lookup/LicenseLookup.aspx License types include Accountancy, Architects, Landscape Architects, Private Investigators, Professional Engineers, Professional Land Surveyors, Acupuncture, Addiction Counselors, Chiropractors, Dental, Direct-Entry, Midwives, Hearing Aid Providers, Marriage & Family Therapists, Massage Therapists, Medical, Naturopathic Medicine, Nursing, Nursing Home Administrators, Occupational Therapy, Optometry, Pharmacy, Physical Therapy, Podiatry, Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP), Professional Counselors, Psychologists, Registered Psychotherapy, Respiratory Therapy, Social Work, Speech-Language Pathology, Surgical Assistant & Surgical Technologist, Athletic Trainers, Audiologists, Barbers, Cosmetologists, Estheticians, Hairstylists, Nail Technicians, Electrical, Funeral Home & Crematory, Outfitters, Passenger Tramway, Plumbing, Boxing, Veterinary.
* [Mesa County Income](https://data.colorado.gov/d/4jgr-9m6e) - Income data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis and Census for the State of Colorado and counties, including FIPS codes. Updated monthly, and and extending back to 1929. Data is aggregated and updated by Median Household Income from the United States Census and by Total Personal Income and from the Per Capita Personal Income by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Both income and population are aggregated and reported.
* [2013 Self-Reported Incidents by all Health Facilities in Colorado](https://data.colorado.gov/d/esdh-m7sw) - ALL OCCURRENCES REPORTED BY ALL FACILITIES (Assisted Living Residences, Ambulatory Surgical Centers, Group homes for developmentally disabled individuals, ICFIID, Dialysis Centers, Home Health Agencies, Hospitals - Acute, Hospitals - Psych, Hospice, Long Term Care/Nursing Homes).
* [Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Data & Statistics by Topic](https://data.colorado.gov/d/c78j-uum2) - Includes information on the following topics: Aging, Alcohol, Arthritis,Asthma, Autism (ASD), Birth Defects, Births, Blood Disorders, Breastfeeding, Cancer, Chronic Diseases, Deaths, Diabetes, Disease Classification, Foodborne Illness, Genomics, Growth Charts, Healthy Water, Heart Disease, HIV/AIDS, Immunizations, Injuries & Violence, Life Expectancy, Lyme Disease, MRSA, Oral Health, Overweight & Obesity, Physical Inactivity, reproductive Health, Smoking & Tobacco, STDs, Vital Signs, Workplace
* [childcare](https://data.colorado.gov/d/n3ux-mujn) - This dataset includes all non-24 hour licensed child care facilities in the State of Colorado. It is updated twice a month, and is intended for public use. It includes CDHS-issued child care license numbers, legal business names as they appear in the licensing application, the types of service the programs provide, the physical location address es of the programs as they appear in the licensing application, the longitude-latitude coordinate values derived from geocoding services and spatial QA, the valid Colorado Shines quality rating levels (if applicable), total licensed capacities, and CCCAP utilization and fiscal agreement. Disclaimer: The State of Colorado, the Colorado Department of Human Services, and the Office of Early Childhood make no representations or warranties expressed or implied, with respect to the use of data provided herewith regardless of its format or the means of its transmission. There is no guarantee or representation to the user as to the accuracy, currency, suitability, or reliability of this data for any purpose. The user accepts the data “as is”. The State of Colorado assumes no responsibility for loss or damage incurred as a result of any user reliance on this data. Users of this information should review or consult the primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability of the information. The State of Colorado does not necessarily endorse any interpretations or products derived from the data.
* [CDPHE Composite Community Level Estimates (Census Tracts)](https://data.colorado.gov/d/dmuh-5ewr) - The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment has developed community-level estimates for adults in a set of 14 important health condition and risk behavior indicators. The dataset includes indicators on adult asthma prevalence, cigarette smoking prevalence, coronary heart disease prevalence, percent of adults who delayed medical care due to cost, diabetes prevalence, binge drinking and heavy alcohol consumption, percent of adults with fair or poor health status, mental distress, percent of adults with no routine medical checkup in the past 12 month, obesity and overweight prevalence, percent of adults that did not report doing physical activity or exercise, and percent of adults with frequent physical distress. These four-year estimates (2013-2016) have been produced for each census tract in the State of Colorado based on modeled survey data collected in the Colorado Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) and incorporating population, race, gender, and age estimates for each census tract from the American Community Survey. CDPHE's Community Level Estimates are output from statistical models used to generate health condition and risk behavior estimates for smaller geographies than traditional surveillance systems report. The estimates are produced using a multilevel model that incorporates individual Colorado Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) survey responses in addition to socio-demographic and contextual information about each census tract from the U.S. Census (American Community Survey). The individual survey responses related to a health condition or risk behavior from the Colorado BRFSS are nested within geographic boundaries (counties) where both individual characteristics (demographic) as well as sociodemographic characteristics can be used to model the probability of having a health condition or risk behavior at the census tract geography.
