# data.cityoforlando.net health datasets
* [OPD Crimes](https://data.cityoforlando.net/d/4y9m-jbmz) - This dataset comes from the Orlando Police Department records management system. It includes all Part 1 and Part 2 crimes as defined by the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reporting standards. When multiple crimes are committed the highest level of crime is what is shown. The data includes only Open and Closed cases and does not include informational cases without arrests. This data excludes crimes where the victim or offender data is or could be legally protected. Those include: Cases that are flagged as: Domestic Violence Elderly Abuse Exempt from Public Record Witness Protection Cases where the offender was charged with the following case codes/state statutes: Sexual Battery Child Abuse Aggravated Stalking/Harassment Obscene or harassing telephone calls Aggravated Battery Domestic Violence Injunctions Lewd,Lascivious or Indecent Assault upon or in the presence of a child Elder Abuse Baker Act Obscenity Forcible Rape Forcible Sodomy Forcible Fondling Cases where the a juvenile is arrested Fields in the OPD Crimes Data Set: Case Number - Automatically assigned at the time the incident is created in OPD records management system. First four characters indicate the year the incident was created in the system. Case Date Time - Day and time of the incident Case Location - Block level address or intersection of the location Case Offense Category - Category of the highest crime committed attempted Case Offense Type - Type of the highest crime committed or attempted Case Offense Charge Type - Indication of if the crime was committed or attempted Case Disposition - Indication of the status or disposition given for this case Status - This is an information only field to designate if the City was able to map the Incident Location to a latitude and longitude Location - Mapped latitude and longitude to the center of the block at the middle of the street of Incident Location Disclaimer: The data is derived from the Orlando Police Department’s Records Management Systems, we acknowledge there is always the possibility of mechanical or human error. The City of Orlando does not guarantee the accuracy of the information. The City of Orlando will not be responsible for any error or omission, or for the use of, or the results obtained from the use of this information. All data visualizations on maps should be considered approximate and attempts to derive specific addresses are strictly prohibited. Additionally, because OPD policy and operations regarding reporting might change, the data may have limited value for comparisons over time
* [OPD_ReportedCrimes_2011](https://data.cityoforlando.net/d/rp47-md65) - This dataset comes from the Orlando Police Department records management system. It includes all Part 1 and Part 2 crimes as defined by the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reporting standards. When multiple crimes are committed the highest level of crime is what is shown. The data includes only Open and Closed cases and does not include informational cases without arrests. This data excludes crimes where the victim or offender data is or could be legally protected. Those include: Cases that are flagged as: Domestic Violence Elderly Abuse Exempt from Public Record Witness Protection Cases where the offender was charged with the following case codes/state statutes: Sexual Battery Child Abuse Aggravated Stalking/Harassment Obscene or harassing telephone calls Aggravated Battery Domestic Violence Injunctions Lewd,Lascivious or Indecent Assault upon or in the presence of a child Elder Abuse Baker Act Obscenity Forcible Rape Forcible Sodomy Forcible Fondling Cases where the a juvenile is arrested Fields in the OPD Crimes Data Set: Case Number - Automatically assigned at the time the incident is created in OPD records management system. First four characters indicate the year the incident was created in the system. Case Date Time - Day and time of the incident Case Location - Block level address or intersection of the location Case Offense Category - Category of the highest crime committed attempted Case Offense Type - Type of the highest crime committed or attempted Case Offense Charge Type - Indication of if the crime was committed or attempted Case Disposition - Indication of the status or disposition given for this case Status - This is an information only field to designate if the City was able to map the Incident Location to a latitude and longitude Location - Mapped latitude and longitude to the center of the block at the middle of the street of Incident Location Disclaimer: The data is derived from the Orlando Police Department’s Records Management Systems, we acknowledge there is always the possibility of mechanical or human error. The City of Orlando does not guarantee the accuracy of the information. The City of Orlando will not be responsible for any error or omission, or for the use of, or the results obtained from the use of this information. All data visualizations on maps should be considered approximate and attempts to derive specific addresses are strictly prohibited. Additionally, because OPD policy and operations regarding reporting might change, the data may have limited value for comparisons over time
* [City Of Orlando Crimes](https://data.cityoforlando.net/d/hm2t-fd4m) - This dataset comes from the Orlando Police Department records management system. It includes all Part 1 and Part 2 crimes as defined by the FBI’s Uniform Crime Reporting standards. When multiple crimes are committed the highest level of crime is what is shown. The data includes only Open and Closed cases and does not include informational cases without arrests. This data excludes crimes where the victim or offender data is or could be legally protected. Those include: Cases that are flagged as: Domestic Violence Elderly Abuse Exempt from Public Record Witness Protection Cases where the offender was charged with the following case codes/state statutes: Sexual Battery Child Abuse Aggravated Stalking/Harassment Obscene or harassing telephone calls Aggravated Battery Domestic Violence Injunctions Lewd,Lascivious or Indecent Assault upon or in the presence of a child Elder Abuse Baker Act Obscenity Forcible Rape Forcible Sodomy Forcible Fondling Cases where the a juvenile is arrested Fields in the OPD Crimes Data Set: Case Number - Automatically assigned at the time the incident is created in OPD records management system. First four characters indicate the year the incident was created in the system. Case Date Time - Day and time of the incident Case Location - Block level address or intersection of the location Case Offense Category - Category of the highest crime committed attempted Case Offense Type - Type of the highest crime committed or attempted Case Offense Charge Type - Indication of if the crime was committed or attempted Case Disposition - Indication of the status or disposition given for this case Status - This is an information only field to designate if the City was able to map the Incident Location to a latitude and longitude Location - Mapped latitude and longitude to the center of the block at the middle of the street of Incident Location Disclaimer: The data is derived from the Orlando Police Department’s Records Management Systems, we acknowledge there is always the possibility of mechanical or human error. The City of Orlando does not guarantee the accuracy of the information. The City of Orlando will not be responsible for any error or omission, or for the use of, or the results obtained from the use of this information. All data visualizations on maps should be considered approximate and attempts to derive specific addresses are strictly prohibited. Additionally, because OPD policy and operations regarding reporting might change, the data may have limited value for comparisons over time
