# data.livewellsd.org health datasets
* [2000-2007 Chronic Disease Atlas: Coronary Heart Disease (CHD)](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/ndhz-fvv3) - Data (rates) prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, from Community Profile. Maps prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services.
* [2000-2007 Chronic Disease Atlas: Stroke](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/3qtg-yfjp) - Data (rates) prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, from Community Profile.
Maps prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services.
* [2000-2008 Chronic Disease Atlas: Arthritis and Dorsopathies](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/3wdr-rta4) - Data (rates) prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, from Community Profile.
Maps prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services.
* [Per Capita Income (2013)](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/xukh-xbs4) - 
* [Chronic Disease Resource Sheet](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/r2py-6mb8) - Chronic Disease, Resource
* [Dental ED Discharges 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/ngm8-nijb) - Dental‐related† Emergency Department Discharges: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Dental‐related emergency department discharge refers to (principal diagnosis) ICD‐9 codes 521‐523, 525.3, 525.9, 873.63, 873.73; this includes injury as well as non‐injury medical/dental diagnoses. Blank Cells: Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mpp Source: Emergency Department Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [COPD Deaths 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/pc8v-ysqc) - Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)† Deaths: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age-adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †COPD death refers to (underlying cause of death) ICD-10 codes J40-44. ‡Source: National Vital Statistics System, CDC, NCHS. Online database accessed 06/01/2013: http://wonder.cdc.gov. Blank Cells: Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mppSource: Death Statistical Master Files (CDPH), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [San Diego County Smoking Attributable Mortality](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/nd3k-dcxq) - This dataset presents smoking attributable deaths for San Diego County by condition and overall categories for those 35 years of age and older. 2014-2015. For data by HHSA Region or archived years, please visit www.sdhealthstatistics.com Methods: Fractions by the Centers for Disease Control, Smoking‐Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs (SAMMEC) System. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK294316/table/ch12.t4/?report=objectonly Note: Deaths with unknown age or sex were not included in the analysis. Deaths were pulled using 2016 ICD 10 codes. Source: California Department of Public Health, Center for Health Statistics, Office of Health Information and Research, Vital Records Business Intelligence System (2015). Prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 05/23/17. Note: COPD = chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. a - Other cancers consist of cancers of the lip, pharynx and oral cavity, esophagus, stomach, pancreas, larynx, cervix uteri (women), kidney and renal pelvis, bladder, liver, colon and rectum, and acute myeloid leukemia. b - Other heart disease comprised of rheumatic heart disease, pulmonary heart disease, and other forms of heart disease. c - Cerebrovascular diseases ICD-10 Codes: I60-I69 d - Other vascular diseases are comprised of atherosclerosis, aortic aneurysm, and other arterial diseases. e - Pulmonary diseases consists of pneumonia, influenza, emphysema, bronchitis, and chronic airways obstruction. f - Prenatal conditions (All Ages) comprised of ICD-10 codes: K55.0, P00.0, P01.0, P01.1, P01.5, P02.0, P02.1, P02.7, P07.0–P07.3, P10.2, P22.0–P22.9, P25.0–P27.9, P28.0, P28.1, P36.0–P36.9, P52.0–P52.3, and P77 (Dietz et al. 2010). g - Sudden Infant Death Syndrome ((All Ages) ICD-10 code R95
* [Diabetes Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/nr2e-aev3) - Diabetes Hospitalizations: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Diabetes hospitalization refers to (principal diagnosis) ICD‐9 code 250. Blank Cells:Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mppSource: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [2000-2007 Chronic Disease Atlas: Cancer](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/t4r8-gfjy) - Data (rates) prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, from Community Profile. Maps prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services.
* [2000-2007 Chronic Disease Atlas: Diabetes](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/3ews-6a5c) - Data (rates) prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, from Community Profile. Maps prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services.
* [2002-2011 Diabetes Death Rates and Exercise Behaviors by Subregional Area, San Diego County](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/d5sp-bahx) - Maps and Analysis by County of San Diego, Emergency Medical Services. Contact: Isabel Corcos or Leslie Ray, 619-285-6429. Sources: Chronic Disease Data 2002-2011 from County of San Diego, Community Health Statistics Unit. Health Behavior Data from ESRI Market Potential Database, 2013 estimates.
* [Motor Vehicle Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/view/tayp-2p8k) - Motor Vehicle Injury Hospitalizations: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
**Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information.
Motor Vehicle Injury hospitalization refers to unintentional hospitalization of anyone involved in a motor vehicle accident (collision or non-collision) on a public road, including occupants, pedestrians, and cyclists; primary ICD-9 Ecodes E810-819. §Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown.
Source: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [2002-2011 Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) Death Rates and Exercise Behaviors by Subregional Area, San Diego County](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/ex8g-jiaw) - Maps and Analysis by County of San Diego, Emergency Medical Services. Contact: Isabel Corcos or Leslie Ray, 619-285-6429. Sources: Chronic Disease Data 2002-2011 from County of San Diego, Community Health Statistics Unit. Health Behavior Data from ESRI Market Potential Database, 2013 estimates.
* [2000-2008 Chronic Disease Atlas: Asthma](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/mz6j-vbui) - Data (rates) prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, from Community Profile. Maps prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services.
* [2000-2007 Chronic Disease Atlas: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disorder (COPD)](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/e6uz-y6ba) - Data (rates) prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, from Community Profile. Maps prepared by County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services.
* [Self Inflicted Injury Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/t45i-ykfm) - Self‐Inflicted Injury Hospitalizations: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Self‐inflicted injury hospitalization refers to (principal diagnosis) ICD‐9 Ecodes E950‐E959. Blank Cells:Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mpp Source: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Influenza(Flu)_Pneumonia_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/rpkn-h9h2) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Motor Vehicle Deaths 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/34z9-artp) - Motor Vehicle Injury Deaths : *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. Motor Vehicle Injury death refers to unintentional deaths of anyone involved in a motor vehicle accident (collision or non-collision) on a public road, including occupants, pedestrians, and cyclists; (underlying cause of death) ICD-10 codes V30-V39 (.4-.9), V40-V49 (.4-.9), V50-V59 (.4-.9), V60-V69 (.4-.9), V70-V79 (.4-.9), V81.1, V82.1, V83-V86 (.0-.3), V20-V28 (.3-.9), V29 (.4-.9), V12-V14 (.3-.9), V19 (.4-.6), V02-V04 (.1, .9), V09.2, V80 (.3-.5), V87 (.0-.8), V89.2. ‡Source: National Vital Statistics System, CDC, NCHS. Online database accessed 06/01/2013: http://wonder.cdc.gov. Blank Cells: Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mpp Source: Death Statistical Master Files (CDPH), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Congenital Disorders_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/feis-y8x3) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Asthma Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/ku5h-99jx) - Asthma Hospitalizations: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Asthma hospitalization refers to (principal diagnosis) ICD‐9 code 493. Blank Cells: Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mppSource: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Pneumonia_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/pzys-dhy3) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Skin Cancer Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/iqqg-uzny) - Skin Cancer† Hospitalizations: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Skin cancer hospitalizations refers to malignant melanoma (underlying cause) ICD‐9 code 172. §Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Source: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Lung Cancer Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/9zr6-svkb) - Lung Cancer† Hospitalizations: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Lung Cancer hospitalizations refers to (underlying cause) ICD‐9 code 162. Blank Cells: Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mppSource: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Atlas of Foreign Born Populations, San Diego County, 2012](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/u2th-mny5) - Purpose: This atlas has 4 map series and 2 tables created from the American Community Survey (ACS) 2005-2009 summary results which describe the origins, and English-speaking ability of foreign-born populations. All maps show data at the census tract level. Map series: 1. Place of Birth 2. Language Spoken at Home 3. Speak English Less Than “Very Well” 4. Linguistic Isolation Tables 1. Birthplace (Country), among Foreign-born Population 2. Language Spoken at Home by English-speaking Ability
* [California Health Interview Survey (CHIS) Health Profile - Teens 2015](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/7euj-i4xs) - California Health Interview Survey (CHIS) is a source of information on health, health behaviors, and access to health care services. The survey is conducted every two years through telephone surveys of adults, adolescents, and children, and is the largest state health survey in the nation. In the following documents, information from CHIS is presented and used to estimate the number of residents represented by the survey data. Both County-level and Health and Human Services Agency (HHSA) Region-level information is provided.
* [Unintentional Injury Death 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/b9x6-aev2) - Unintentional Injury† Deaths: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Unintentional Injury death refers to (underlying cause of death) ICD‐10 codes V01‐X59, Y85‐Y86. ‡Source: National Vital Statistics System, CDC, NCHS. Online database accessed 06/01/2013: http://wonder.cdc.gov. Blank Cells: Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mppSource: Death Statistical Master Files (CDPH), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Motor Vehicle Injuries_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/j63c-vt8e) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Hip Fractures_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/tni8-ihez) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Pedestrian Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/syb6-7f82) - Pedestrian† Hospitalizations due to Motor Vehicle Accidents on Public Roads: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Pedestrian hospitalizations attributed to Motor Vehicle Accidents refers to those occurring on public roads; primary ICD‐9 Ecodes E810‐819.7. Blank Cells: Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mpp Source: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Overall Hypertensive Diseases_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/sr7z-huvq) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Pedestrian Injuries_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/uv2h-az4y) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Thyroid Cancer Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/izhh-qjd5) - Thyroid Cancer† Hospitalizations: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Thyroid cancer hospitalizations refers to malignant neoplasms (underlying cause) ICD‐9 code 193. §Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Source: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Flu Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/i3a4-g536) - Influenza (Flu)† Hospitalizations: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. † Flu Hospitalization refers to ICD 9 Codes 487‐488. Blank Cells: Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mppSource: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Chronic Alcohol ED Discharge 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/fb4r-j2ez) - Chronic Alcohol‐related Disorder Emergency Department Discharges: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Chronic alcohol‐related disorder Emergency Department Discharge refers to (principal diagnosis) ICD‐9 code 303. §Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Source: Emergency Department Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Acute Alcohol ED Discharge 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/qv8u-jq8c) - Acute Alcohol‐related Disorder† Emergency Department Discharges: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
**Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information.
†Acute alcohol‐related disorder hospitalization refers to (principal diagnosis) ICD‐9 codes 291, 305.0, 980.0.
§Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown.
Source: Emergency Department Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Flu ED Discharges 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/8qg3-6pi9) - Influenza (Flu)† Emergency Department Discharges: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Flu Hospitalization refers to ICD 9 Codes 487‐488. Blank Cells:Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Metadata Documentation: https://data.livewellsd.org/Maps-Charts-Graphs-and-Reports/Community-Health-Data-Guide-and-Metadata-2015/i4iw-3mppSource: Emergency Department Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Emergency Medical Services; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
* [Non-melanoma Skin Cancer_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/kpvg-7nct) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Kidney Cancer_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/pb8x-48jd) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Maternal Complications_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/cynp-2ehy) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Parkinsons_ Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/6dnd-tdc8) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Overdose Poisoning_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/tarn-zgcq) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Female Breast Cancer_Public Health Data](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/aii8-jats) - *Rates per 100,000 population. Age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population.
Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs.
Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the
Data Guide for more information.
†Codebook and Data Guide: http://www.sandiegocounty.gov/content/dam/sdc/hhsa/programs/phs/CHS/Community%20Profiles/Public%20Health%20Services%20Codebook_Data%20Guide_Metadata_%2010.13.17.xlsx
Blank Cells: Blank cells represent censored data. Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events or in cases where zip code is unknown. Geography not reported where there are no cases reported in a given year.
Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health
Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2018.
* [Female Breast Cancer Hospitalizations 2010-2013](https://data.livewellsd.org/d/ybf2-348e) - Female Breast Cancer† Hospitalizations: *Rates per 100,000 population. County age‐adjusted rates per 100,000 2000 US standard population. **Harbison Crest/El Cajon is an aggregation of the Harbison Crest and El Cajon SRAs. Due to geographic limitations, the Harbison Crest SRA is not shown alone. See the Data Guide for more information. †Female Breast Cancer hospitalizations refers to (underlying cause) ICD‐9 codes 174-175. §Rates not calculated for fewer than 5 events. Rates not calculated in cases where zip code is unknown. Source: Patient Discharge Database (CA OSHPD), County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Epidemiology & Immunization Services Branch; SANDAG, Current Population Estimates, 10/2013. Prepared by: County of San Diego, Health & Human Services Agency, Public Health Services, Community Health Statistics Unit, 2015.
