# data.iowa.gov health datasets
* [Iowa Buildings](https://data.iowa.gov/d/dn72-qfa6) - This map displays the location of Iowa Buildings, excluding churches, schools and hospitals that are included in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).  The GNIS is the Federal standard for geographic nomenclature.* [Motor Home and Camp Trailer Registrations by Year](https://data.iowa.gov/d/qyya-wscg) - Chart includes motor homes (class A, B, C) and “camp” trailers, which are listed as travel trailers.* [2014 International Roughness Index](https://data.iowa.gov/d/8jiu-tz5u) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [Iowa Cemeteries](https://data.iowa.gov/d/bc37-rjxz) - This map displays location of Iowa Cemeteries based on data from a list of Iowa features contained in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).  The GNIS is the Federal standard for geographic nomenclature.* [Iowa Church Buildings](https://data.iowa.gov/d/juvk-dad9) - This map displays locations buildings used for religious worship (chapel, mosque, synagogue, tabernacle, temple) as contained in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).* [Oral Health Hospitalizations](https://data.iowa.gov/d/dwwv-tx22) - There are three measures available on the portal for oral health hospitalizations.

1.  Number of Visits – The count of hospitalizations with a principle diagnosis code for oral health.
2.  Crude Rate per 10,000 – Rate calculated by dividing the number of hospitalizations by the total census population and multiplying by 10,000.
3.  Age Adjusted Rate per 10,000 – Age adjustment to the 2000 Standard US Census  to allow direct comparison of rates in counties or states with different age distributions.

This indicator uses data collected by hospitals. It can be used to identify trends and patterns in the occurrence of oral health- related hospitalizations across time and space. The data are organized by different variables to help estimate the number of oral health hospital admissions in different time periods, age groups, and geographic areas.* [2013 Pavement Condition Index](https://data.iowa.gov/d/ktv5-ivj9) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [Iowa Hospital Buildings](https://data.iowa.gov/d/ciqq-2z9p) - This map displays Iowa hospital buildings, where the sick or injured may receive medical or surgical attention, listed in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).  The GNIS is the Federal standard for geographic nomenclature.* [Iowa Parks](https://data.iowa.gov/d/5hkj-8nd6) - This map displays location of parks listed in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).  The GNIS is the Federal standard for geographic nomenclature.  Parks are a place or area set aside for recreation or preservation of a cultural or natural resource and under some form of government administration; not including National or State forests or Reserves (national historical landmark, national park, State park, wilderness area).* [Initial Unemployment Insurance Claims by County](https://data.iowa.gov/d/thyz-xvrm) - Initial unemployment insurance claims include new claims and additional claims. A new claim is any notice of unemployment filed to request a determination of entitlement to and eligibility for compensation. An additional claim is a notice of unemployment filed to begin a second or subsequent period of eligibility within a benefit year or period of eligibility.

County data is based on the claimant’s place of residence. (2011 to date)* [Oral Health Emergency Department Visits](https://data.iowa.gov/d/c7cn-d6by) - There are three measures available on the portal for oral health emergency department visits:

1.  Number of Visits – The count of emergency department visits with a principle diagnosis code for oral health.
2.  Crude Rate per 10,000 – Rate calculated by dividing the number of cases by the total census population and multiplying by 10,000.
3.  Age Adjusted Rate per 10,000k – Age adjustment to the 2000 Standard US Census to allow direct comparison of rates in counties or states with different age distributions.

This indicator uses data collected by hospitals and outpatient clinics. It can be used to identify trends and patterns in the occurrence of oral health problems across time and space. The data are organized by different variables to help estimate the burden of oral health in different time periods, age groups, and geographic areas.

Oral health-related emergency department visits are measured through outpatient records when service is provided in the emergency department or observation area of hospitals and clinics, and through inpatient hospitalization records when the patient is admitted through the emergency department or observation area.* [2015 Pavement Condition Index](https://data.iowa.gov/d/gnf5-ve8r) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units.* [2013 Pavement Friction](https://data.iowa.gov/d/4pki-n9bt) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [Iowa Cemeteries](https://data.iowa.gov/d/bc37-rjxz) - This map displays location of Iowa Cemeteries based on data from a list of Iowa features contained in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).  The GNIS is the Federal standard for geographic nomenclature.* [Iowa Church Buildings](https://data.iowa.gov/d/juvk-dad9) - This map displays locations buildings used for religious worship (chapel, mosque, synagogue, tabernacle, temple) as contained in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).* [Iowa Buildings](https://data.iowa.gov/d/dn72-qfa6) - This map displays the location of Iowa Buildings, excluding churches, schools and hospitals that are included in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).  The GNIS is the Federal standard for geographic nomenclature.* [Motor Home and Camp Trailer Registrations by Year](https://data.iowa.gov/d/qyya-wscg) - Chart includes motor homes (class A, B, C) and “camp” trailers, which are listed as travel trailers.* [Asthma in Iowa](https://data.iowa.gov/d/wffc-9jrf) - Asthma is a chronic disease that affects the airways that carry oxygen in and out of the lungs. If a person has asthma, the inside of these airways is irritated and swollen. Asthma can cause shortness of breath, wheezing, coughing, and tightness in the chest. For some people, asthma symptoms only appear when they are exposed to something that irritates their breathing such as cigarette smoke, dust, or pet dander. Others have a kind of asthma that makes breathing difficult all of the time.

The data contained in this dataset is collected by the Iowa Hospital Association on behalf of the Iowa Department of Public Health in accordance with Iowa Code section 135.166. This dataset contains confidential information. Small numbers suppression has been applied to data available to the public. The measures include Emergency Department encounters that result in inpatient admissions as well as Emergency Department only encounters.* [Sample 2017 Iowa Individual Affordable Care Act-Compliant Premiums](https://data.iowa.gov/d/fczw-quz5) - Sample premium information for individual ACA-compliant health insurance plans available to Iowans for 2017 based on age, rating area and metal level.  These are premiums for individuals, not families..* [Vehicle Registrations and Fees by Year and County](https://data.iowa.gov/d/q98y-3bph) - The dataset provides vehicle (both motor vehicle and trailer) registration numbers and annual fees by year, county and vehicle types.  Vehicle types include: Automobile, Bus, Moped, Motor Home - A, Motor Home - B, Motor Home - C, Motorcycle, Multi-purpose, Regular Trailer, Semi Trailer, Small Regular Trailer, Small Semi Trailer, Truck Tractor, Travel Trailer, Truck, Truck - Business Trade, and Truck - Weight and List.* [2015 International Roughness Index](https://data.iowa.gov/d/vuan-7e3a) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS)](https://data.iowa.gov/d/cbte-u3uu) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [Iowa Veterans Home - Current Spouses by Age](https://data.iowa.gov/d/wsrm-vivc) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Total FIP Cases and Recipient by Month](https://data.iowa.gov/d/itg7-74ni) - The Family Investment Program (FIP) is Iowa's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. FIP provides cash assistance to needy families, as they become self-supporting so children may be cared for in their own homes or in the homes of relatives.  Data are provided on the number of cases (families) served, the number of recipients served and the dollar value of the payments provided summed by month and county starting January 2011 and updated monthly. A case is defined as a family group who receives FIP assistance together. A recipient is an individual on a FIP case.* [Elderly & Disabled Property Tax Credit Distributions](https://data.iowa.gov/d/rrux-d28c) - This data view contains local government payment transactions for the Elderly & Disabled tax credit program as recorded in the State of Iowa’s central accounting system for the Executive Branch.* [Income by Race and Ethnicity](https://data.iowa.gov/d/uw9t-4tj3) - The resource allows you to view median family income, per capita income, median household income, and median nonfamily income based on 5-year period estimates by race and ethnicity.  Information is provided for Iowa and other states, the nation, and counties, cities, metropolitan and micropolitan areas, and school districts in Iowa.* [County Physical Health and Social Services Budgeted Expenditures by Fiscal Year](https://data.iowa.gov/d/eitx-py3t) - This chart reflects total budgeted physical health and social services expenditures totaled for all counties by fiscal year.  Expenditures shown are for physical health services, services to the poor, services to military veterans, children's and family services, services to other adults, and the chemical dependency program.* [Iowa Veterans Home - Current Veteran Residents](https://data.iowa.gov/d/jt3a-4eb9) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Iowa Asthma Hospitalizations](https://data.iowa.gov/d/jnja-mea3) - This dataset contains case counts of asthma inpatient hospitalizations among Iowa residents. These include incidents of asthma attacks, obstructive lung disease, and reactive airway disease. The data are stratified by county of residence, age group, and gender.  The data contained in this dataset is collected by the Iowa Hospital Association on behalf of the Iowa Department of Public Health in accordance with Iowa Code section 135.166. This dataset contains confidential information. Small numbers suppression has been applied to data available to the public. The hospital admissions data present state hospital discharge data which reflects more severe exacerbations of asthma. Persons who have to stay in the hospital because of asthma usually have more severe attacks than persons with asthma symptoms who are not hospitalized. This dataset is using hospital admission dates while other public health programs use the hospital discharge dates to count asthma cases. This may cause a difference in asthma rates between this dataset and other public health Web sites.* [What percentage of individuals with disabilities are rehabilitated each federal fiscal year?](https://data.iowa.gov/d/d7sb-7yix) - Iowa Vocational Rehabilitation Services provides individualized services to Iowans with disabilities to achieve their independence through successful employment and economic support. This 100% stacked column chart shows the percentage of closed cases that were rehabilitated (i.e., achieved employment outcome) by each federal fiscal year (October 1 through September 30).* [What percentage of individuals with disabilities are rehabilitated by type of disability?](https://data.iowa.gov/d/fmxt-ujbq) - Iowa Vocational Rehabilitation Services provides individualized services to Iowans with disabilities to achieve their independence through successful employment and economic support. This 100% stacked column chart shows the percentage of closed cases that were rehabilitated (i.e., achieved employment outcome) by disability type.* [Iowa School Buidlings](https://data.iowa.gov/d/p8vz-fyge) - This map shows the location of 
Building or group of buildings used as an institution for study, teaching, and learning (academy, college, high school, university) that are included in the federal Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).  The GNIS is the Federal standard for geographic nomenclature.* [Population by Time Leave for Work](https://data.iowa.gov/d/kgid-rrf7) - The resource allows you to view 5-year period population estimates by time of day people leave home to go to work.  Estimates only include those 16 years old and older who did not work from home.  Information is provided for Iowa and other states, the nation, and counties, cities, metropolitan and micropolitan areas, and school districts in Iowa.* [2013 International Roughness Index](https://data.iowa.gov/d/3ugc-t7c6) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units.* [Economic Development Projects in Performance Period by City](https://data.iowa.gov/d/hvr5-j82y) - This dataset includes information on economic development projects that have been awarded incentives through Iowa Economic Development Authority programs as early as FY 2003, have signed contracts with the state and are in either the “performance” period, the “maintenance” period or are "in default" as of the end of the fiscal year noted. In most cases, projects are required to have met job, wage and capital investment obligations by their “Project Completion Date”. Beyond the completion date, projects are required to maintain the obligated jobs and investment through the “Maintenance Date."  All projects provide information on total project costs, capital investment, as well as the amount of direct assistance and tax credits awarded to the project.  Projected and contracted job data is available for all projects.  However, project completion jobs and reported jobs is only available for those projects in the "maintenance" period.  Projects in the "performance" period are still in the process of being implemented and are not yet complete.  Projects in Default were considered “in default” as of the end of the annual report cut-off date (typically end of fiscal year).  The status “in default” is a temporary one since businesses are allowed a contractually designated cure period to correct the default. Reasons for being considered “in default” range from not filing required reports to not creating the obligated jobs or investment required by the contract.* [Economic Development Projects In Default by City](https://data.iowa.gov/d/ju5j-6tpn) - This dataset includes information on economic development projects that have been awarded incentives through Iowa Economic Development Authority programs as early as FY 2003, have signed contracts with the state and are in either the “performance” period, the “maintenance” period or are "in default" as of the end of the fiscal year noted. In most cases, projects are required to have met job, wage and capital investment obligations by their “Project Completion Date”. Beyond the completion date, projects are required to maintain the obligated jobs and investment through the “Maintenance Date."  All projects provide information on total project costs, capital investment, as well as the amount of direct assistance and tax credits awarded to the project.  Projected and contracted job data is available for all projects.  However, project completion jobs and reported jobs is only available for those projects in the "maintenance" period.  Projects in the "performance" period are still in the process of being implemented and are not yet complete.  Projects in Default were considered “in default” as of the end of the annual report cut-off date (typically end of fiscal year).  The status “in default” is a temporary one since businesses are allowed a contractually designated cure period to correct the default. Reasons for being considered “in default” range from not filing required reports to not creating the obligated jobs or investment required by the contract.* [Iowa Veterans Home - Current and Past Residents by County of Admission](https://data.iowa.gov/d/uvbj-i36b) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Iowa Hospital Buildings](https://data.iowa.gov/d/ciqq-2z9p) - This map displays Iowa hospital buildings, where the sick or injured may receive medical or surgical attention, listed in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).  The GNIS is the Federal standard for geographic nomenclature.* [Initial Unemployment Insurance Claims by County](https://data.iowa.gov/d/thyz-xvrm) - Initial unemployment insurance claims include new claims and additional claims. A new claim is any notice of unemployment filed to request a determination of entitlement to and eligibility for compensation. An additional claim is a notice of unemployment filed to begin a second or subsequent period of eligibility within a benefit year or period of eligibility.

County data is based on the claimant’s place of residence. (2011 to date)* [Public Areas](https://data.iowa.gov/d/mzbk-36ew) - This dataset represents conservation and recreation lands in the state of Iowa.  Boundaries of areas represent differences in ownership and managing agency of the area.  The sources of this data is derived from many different sources, mainly from the agency responsible for the area.  Some of these conservation areas are under private ownership and public access is not allowed, signs and private property should be respected.  Full Metadata:  ftp://ftp.igsb.uiowa.edu/gis_library/admin_political_boundary/public_lands/cons_rec_lands_pubilc.zip* [Oral Health Emergency Department Visits](https://data.iowa.gov/d/c7cn-d6by) - There are three measures available on the portal for oral health emergency department visits:

1.  Number of Visits – The count of emergency department visits with a principle diagnosis code for oral health.
2.  Crude Rate per 10,000 – Rate calculated by dividing the number of cases by the total census population and multiplying by 10,000.
3.  Age Adjusted Rate per 10,000k – Age adjustment to the 2000 Standard US Census to allow direct comparison of rates in counties or states with different age distributions.

This indicator uses data collected by hospitals and outpatient clinics. It can be used to identify trends and patterns in the occurrence of oral health problems across time and space. The data are organized by different variables to help estimate the burden of oral health in different time periods, age groups, and geographic areas.

Oral health-related emergency department visits are measured through outpatient records when service is provided in the emergency department or observation area of hospitals and clinics, and through inpatient hospitalization records when the patient is admitted through the emergency department or observation area.* [2015 Pavement Condition Index](https://data.iowa.gov/d/gnf5-ve8r) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units.* [Avg FIP Cases and Recipients and Total Grants by County and Year](https://data.iowa.gov/d/mbvs-mggu) - The Family Investment Program (FIP) is Iowa's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. FIP provides cash assistance to needy families, as they become self-supporting so children may be cared for in their own homes or in the homes of relatives.  Data are provided on the number of cases (families) served, the number of recipients served and the dollar value of the payments provided summed by month and county starting January 2011 and updated monthly. A case is defined as a family group who receives FIP assistance together. A recipient is an individual on a FIP case.* [Number of Vehicle Registrations by Year and Vehicle Category](https://data.iowa.gov/d/y5ez-tdev) - The dataset provides vehicle (both motor vehicle and trailer) registration numbers and annual fees by year, county and vehicle types.  Vehicle types include: Automobile, Bus, Moped, Motor Home - A, Motor Home - B, Motor Home - C, Motorcycle, Multi-purpose, Regular Trailer, Semi Trailer, Small Regular Trailer, Small Semi Trailer, Truck Tractor, Travel Trailer, Truck, Truck - Business Trade, and Truck - Weight and List.* [Open Forfeiture Cases in State of Iowa](https://data.iowa.gov/d/pb4s-vt2q) - This filtered view provides open forfeiture case information including the money, real estate and vehicles seized in the State of Iowa beginning October 6, 2016.* [Economic Development Projects - Under Contract](https://data.iowa.gov/d/g6gr-2p55) - This dataset includes information on economic development projects that have been awarded incentives through Iowa Economic Development Authority programs as early as FY 2003, have signed contracts with the state and are in either the “performance” period, the “maintenance” period or are "in default" as of the end of the fiscal year noted. In most cases, projects are required to have met job, wage and capital investment obligations by their “Project Completion Date”. Beyond the completion date, projects are required to maintain the obligated jobs and investment through the “Maintenance Date."  All projects provide information on total project costs, capital investment, as well as the amount of direct assistance and tax credits awarded to the project.  Projected and contracted job data is available for all projects.  However, project completion jobs and reported jobs is only available for those projects in the "maintenance" period.  Projects in the "performance" period are still in the process of being implemented and are not yet complete.  Projects in Default were considered “in default” as of the end of the annual report cut-off date (typically end of fiscal year).  The status “in default” is a temporary one since businesses are allowed a contractually designated cure period to correct the default. Reasons for being considered “in default” range from not filing required reports to not creating the obligated jobs or investment required by the contract.* [Township Revenues, Expenditures & Cash Balances Budgeted by Fund By Year](https://data.iowa.gov/d/7v7k-5pb4) - This dataset contains budgeted cash balances, revenues and expenditures by fiscal year for each township in the State of Iowa.* [Iowa Veterans Home - Current and Past Residents by Gender (Veterans Only)](https://data.iowa.gov/d/vi4j-g988) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Iowa Veterans Home - Current Spouses by Age & Gender](https://data.iowa.gov/d/4ym9-su73) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Iowa Veterans Home - Current Residents (Veterans only) by War](https://data.iowa.gov/d/uvhb-3wkx) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Total Unemployment Insurance Initial Claims by County (Monthly)](https://data.iowa.gov/view/byjf-zvzj) - Initial claims include new claims and additional claims.  A new claim is any notice of unemployment filed to request a determination of entitlement to and eligibility for compensation. An additional claim is a notice of unemployment filed to begin a second or subsequent period of eligibility within a benefit year or period of eligibility.* [National Bridge Inventory - Points](https://data.iowa.gov/d/idc9-ny42) - Authoritative data of bridges in Iowa in a point layer. To utilize fields with an NBI heading, please refer to: http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/bridge/mtguide.pdf* [Active Iowa Business Entities by Corporation Type](https://data.iowa.gov/d/3e22-29pq) - This chart highlights the number of active business entities by corporation type.  It includes both domestic business organizations (organized under and subject to the laws of Iowa) and foreign business organizations (organized under a law other than Iowa) who are authorized to transact business in the State of Iowa at time of update.* [2014 Pavement Condition Index](https://data.iowa.gov/d/y5f4-eh6s) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [2014 Total Family Investment Program Grants by County](https://data.iowa.gov/d/wtyj-bqne) - The Family Investment Program (FIP) is Iowa's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. FIP provides cash assistance to needy families, as they become self-supporting so children may be cared for in their own homes or in the homes of relatives.  Data are provided on the number of cases (families) served, the number of recipients served and the dollar value of the payments provided summed by month and county starting January 2011 and updated monthly. A case is defined as a family group who receives FIP assistance together. A recipient is an individual on a FIP case.* [Total FIP Cases, Recipients and Grants by Month](https://data.iowa.gov/d/b96j-3tfh) - The Family Investment Program (FIP) is Iowa's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. FIP provides cash assistance to needy families, as they become self-supporting so children may be cared for in their own homes or in the homes of relatives.  Data are provided on the number of cases (families) served, the number of recipients served and the dollar value of the payments provided summed by month and county starting January 2011 and updated monthly. A case is defined as a family group who receives FIP assistance together. A recipient is an individual on a FIP case.* [Total FIP Grants and Average Recipients and Cases by Year](https://data.iowa.gov/d/q6mm-jh79) - The Family Investment Program (FIP) is Iowa's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. FIP provides cash assistance to needy families, as they become self-supporting so children may be cared for in their own homes or in the homes of relatives.  Data are provided on the number of cases (families) served, the number of recipients served and the dollar value of the payments provided summed by month and county starting January 2011 and updated monthly. A case is defined as a family group who receives FIP assistance together. A recipient is an individual on a FIP case.* [Total FIP Grants by Month](https://data.iowa.gov/d/uawe-w4bt) - The Family Investment Program (FIP) is Iowa's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. FIP provides cash assistance to needy families, as they become self-supporting so children may be cared for in their own homes or in the homes of relatives.  Data are provided on the number of cases (families) served, the number of recipients served and the dollar value of the payments provided summed by month and county starting January 2011 and updated monthly. A case is defined as a family group who receives FIP assistance together. A recipient is an individual on a FIP case.* [2012 Total Family Investment Program Grants by County](https://data.iowa.gov/d/a7d9-cfva) - The Family Investment Program (FIP) is Iowa's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. FIP provides cash assistance to needy families, as they become self-supporting so children may be cared for in their own homes or in the homes of relatives.  Data are provided on the number of cases (families) served, the number of recipients served and the dollar value of the payments provided summed by month and county starting January 2011 and updated monthly. A case is defined as a family group who receives FIP assistance together. A recipient is an individual on a FIP case.* [Rating Areas for Iowa Individual Affordable Care Act Premiums](https://data.iowa.gov/d/hri3-33s9) - This map shows the rating areas associated with the 2016 Iowa Individual Affordable Care Act Premiums.

Rating Area 1 Counties:  
Boone, Calhoun, Carroll, Greene, Grundy, Hamilton, Hardin, Marshall, Poweshiek, Story, Tama, Webster

Rating Area 2 Counties:  
Dallas, Jasper, Madison, Marion, Polk, Warren

Rate Area 3 Counties:  
Buena Vista, Cherokee, Clay, Crawford, Dickinson, Ida, Lyon, Monona, O’Brien, Osceola, Palo Alto, Plymouth, Pocahontas, Sac, Sioux, Woodbury 

Rating Area 4 Counties:  
Adair, Adams, Audubon, Cass, Clarke, Decatur, Fremont, Guthrie, Harrison, Mills, Montgomery, Page, Pottawattamie, Ringgold, Shelby, Taylor, Union 

Rating Area 5 Counties:  
Appanoose, Davis, Des Moines, Henry, Jefferson, Keokuk, Lee, Louisa, Lucas, Mahaska, Monroe, Muscatine, Van Buren, Wapello, Washington, Wayne 

Rating Area 6 Counties:  
Benton, Black Hawk, Buchanan, Cedar, Clayton, Clinton, Delaware, Dubuque, Iowa, Jackson, Johnson, Jones, Linn, Scott

Rating Area 7 Counties: 
Allamakee, Bremer, Butler, Cerro Gordo, Chickasaw, Emmet, Fayette, Floyd, Franklin, Hancock, Howard, Humboldt, Kossuth, Mitchell, Winnebago, Winneshiek, Worth, Wright* [Infrastructure Condition Evaluation (ICE)](https://data.iowa.gov/d/8smn-usb4) - The Infrastructure Condition Evaluation (ICE) is the combination of seven individual criteria that were merged through a linear overlay process, which allows for the evaluation of the entire interstate mainline system using a single composite rating. The seven criteria are: PCI, SIA Sufficiency Rating, IRI, Combination Truck AADT, Single Unit Truck AADT, Passenger AADT, and Congestion (V/C). Generally, the higher the composite score, the better condition the interstate segment is in. This evaluation was the basis for development of the Interstate Corridor Plan. For more information visit: http://www.iowadot.gov/systems_planning/pr_guide/InterstateCorridorPlan.pdf* [PMIS 2015](https://data.iowa.gov/d/fuyk-h5vp) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [PMIS 2012](https://data.iowa.gov/d/3kdi-g2dx) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [Iowa Veterans Home - Current Residents by County of Admission](https://data.iowa.gov/d/sibg-tpdu) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [PMIS 2011](https://data.iowa.gov/d/uxte-8pwb) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [PMIS 2014](https://data.iowa.gov/d/66kf-n2cf) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [2015 Pavement Friction](https://data.iowa.gov/d/t4ur-dvgw) - The Pavement Management Information Systems (PMIS) from 2011 through 2015 contains various levels of data on the pavement condition and history of Iowa Interstate and Primary routes. The data was collected by a 3rd party vendor and processed by the Iowa Department of Transportation. Starting in 2013, the data is reported in English Units instead of Metric Units. * [National Bridge Inventory](https://data.iowa.gov/d/xz9k-6jur) - Authoritative data of bridges in Iowa. This layer contains all bridges that carry a road or pass over a road, in addition to other bridges that are non-road carrying (primarily railroads). 
NOTE: To utilize fields with an NBI heading please refer to: http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/bridge/mtguide.pdf* [IFA Home Buyers - Mortgage by Mortgage Program and County](https://data.iowa.gov/d/ms3k-mcnj) - This dataset includes home buyers who purchased a home with an Iowa Finance Authority single family mortgage program in the State of Iowa with a closing date on or after July 1, 2016.  The data includes loan closing date, mortgage program, original loan amount and county.* [2015 Total Family Investment Program Grants by County](https://data.iowa.gov/d/67m4-c5an) - The Family Investment Program (FIP) is Iowa's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. FIP provides cash assistance to needy families, as they become self-supporting so children may be cared for in their own homes or in the homes of relatives.  Data are provided on the number of cases (families) served, the number of recipients served and the dollar value of the payments provided summed by month and county starting January 2011 and updated monthly. A case is defined as a family group who receives FIP assistance together. A recipient is an individual on a FIP case.* [Iowa Medicaid Payments & Recipients by Month and County](https://data.iowa.gov/d/jmyd-wk9g) - This dataset contains aggregate Medicaid payments, and counts for eligible recipients and recipients served by month and county in Iowa, starting with month ending 1/31/2011.

Eligibility groups are a category of people who meet certain common eligibility requirements. Some Medicaid eligibility groups cover additional services, such as nursing facility care and care received in the home. Others have higher income and resource limits, charge a premium, only pay the Medicare premium or cover only expenses also paid by Medicare, or require the recipient to pay a specific dollar amount of their medical expenses. Eligible Medicaid recipients may be considered medically needy if their medical costs are so high that they use up most of their income. Those considered medically needy are responsible for paying some of their medical expenses. This is called meeting a spend down. Then Medicaid would start to pay for the rest. Think of the spend down like a deductible that people pay as part of a private insurance plan.* [Iowa Unemployment Insurance Initial Claims by County (Monthly)](https://data.iowa.gov/d/rigx-2vau) - This dataset contains Iowa unemployment insurance initial claims by county.  County data is based on the claimant’s place of residence. (2011 to date)* [Iowa Medicaid Payments & Recipients by Month and Vendor](https://data.iowa.gov/d/b3t9-awkp) - This dataset shows aggregated Medicaid payments, client participation, recipients, bed hold days, and other days by vendors/health care providers by month in Iowa starting with July 2011. Vendors within this dataset fall into the following categories: Skilled Nursing Facilities, Intermediate Care Facilities,  Residential Care Facilities, State Operated - Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Mental Disabilities, Community-Based Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Mental Disabilities, and Nursing Facilities for the Mentally Ill.* [Iowa Code 499A organizations](https://data.iowa.gov/d/in93-vav2) - This dataset provides a list of active business entities, both domestic business organizations (organized under and subject to the laws of Iowa), and foreign business organizations (organized under a law other than Iowa) who are authorized to transact business in the State of Iowa at time of update. The dataset includes the business' legal name, type, effective date, name and address of registered agent, and address of principal office.* [Sample 2019 Iowa Individual Affordable Care Act-Compliant Premiums](https://data.iowa.gov/view/puxm-pqjb) - Sample premium information for individual ACA-compliant health insurance plans available to Iowans for 2019 based on age, rating area and metal level. These are premiums for individuals, not families. Please note that not every plan ID is available in every county. Please go to https://www.healthcare.gov/ to determine if your plan is available in the county you reside in.* [Iowa Child Abuse Occurrences by Year and Type of Abuse, Excluding Denial of Critical Care (Neglect)](https://data.iowa.gov/d/gsnf-7u63) - This dataset summarizes occurrences of abuse by type identified during child welfare assessments conducted by DHS with "founded" or "confirmed" findings beginning January 1, 2004 - except for denial of critical care (neglect). “Founded” means abuse occurred and resulted in perpetrator placement on the child abuse registry. "Confirmed” means abuse occurred, but it was minor, isolated and not likely to reoccur, and perpetrator was not placed on the central abuse registry.

Each child may be confirmed of multiple types of abuse on a single assessment, and may have multiple assessments.* [Iowa Veterans Home - FY 2016 Revenue Sources](https://data.iowa.gov/d/2pyk-c3i5) - Iowa Veterans Home - Fiscal Year  Revenue Sources* [Iowa Veterans Home - Fiscal Year  Revenue Sources](https://data.iowa.gov/d/ujbf-p9ra) - Iowa Veterans Home - Fiscal Year  Revenue Sources* [IPERS-Covered Wages and Contributions by Membership Group, Employer and FY](https://data.iowa.gov/d/xxuu-vrtq) - The dataset contains information on IPERS-covered wages, employer contributions and employee contributions by membership group, employer and fiscal year.  An employer may have more than one membership group.  Count of employers is before modifications due to GASB 68.* [Iowa Veterans Home Current and Past Residents](https://data.iowa.gov/d/xqff-jfst) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Iowa Fleet Summary By Year, County And Vehicle Type](https://data.iowa.gov/d/6rrx-2vwt) - The dataset provides vehicle (both motor vehicle and trailer) registration numbers and annual fees in Iowa by year, county and vehicle types.  Vehicle types include: Automobile, Bus, Moped, Motor Home - A, Motor Home - B, Motor Home - C, Motorcycle, Multi-purpose, Regular Trailer, Semi Trailer, Small Regular Trailer, Small Semi Trailer, Truck Tractor, Travel Trailer, Truck, Truck - Business Trade, and Truck - Weight and List.* [Highway Access Management - Priority 4](https://data.iowa.gov/d/8ppk-zk8m) - The Iowa DOT has established an access management policy to control access to the Primary Highway System. Access Priority Level 4 is for two-lane rural highways with fewer limitations on access - 600/300 foot minimum between accesses. * [Iowa Economic Indicators](https://data.iowa.gov/d/qd3t-kfqg) - This dataset provides economic indicators used to monitor Iowa's economy and forecast future direction of economic activity in Iowa.* [Iowa Veterans Home - All Residents (Veterans only) by War](https://data.iowa.gov/d/kc7d-m7d2) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Iowa Veterans Home - Current Residents by Gender (Veterans Only)](https://data.iowa.gov/d/vuyw-u2yy) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [HQJP and EZ Econ Dev Projects Under Contract](https://data.iowa.gov/d/cy8m-zgwz) - This dataset includes information on economic development projects that have been awarded incentives through Iowa Economic Development Authority programs as early as FY 2003, have signed contracts with the state and are in either the “performance” period, the “maintenance” period or are "in default" as of the end of the fiscal year noted. In most cases, projects are required to have met job, wage and capital investment obligations by their “Project Completion Date”. Beyond the completion date, projects are required to maintain the obligated jobs and investment through the “Maintenance Date."  All projects provide information on total project costs, capital investment, as well as the amount of direct assistance and tax credits awarded to the project.  Projected and contracted job data is available for all projects.  However, project completion jobs and reported jobs is only available for those projects in the "maintenance" period.  Projects in the "performance" period are still in the process of being implemented and are not yet complete.  Projects in Default were considered “in default” as of the end of the annual report cut-off date (typically end of fiscal year).  The status “in default” is a temporary one since businesses are allowed a contractually designated cure period to correct the default. Reasons for being considered “in default” range from not filing required reports to not creating the obligated jobs or investment required by the contract.* [Iowa Veterans Home - Current Residents by Age](https://data.iowa.gov/d/ytfi-bzhz) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Iowa Cancer Incidence](https://data.iowa.gov/d/qnpz-hwsj) - This dataset contains data for cancers known or suspected to be associated with environmental hazards, and is used to present cancer indicators and measures.  It contains counts by state FIPS code, county FIPS code, year(s) of diagnosis, sex, age group, race, and ethnicity. This dataset was generated using data from the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Program of Cancer Registries (NPCR). SEER collects information on incidence, survival, and prevalence from specific geographic areas representing 26 percent of the US population and compiles reports on all of these plus cancer mortality for the entire US. NPCR includes population-based data about the occurrence of cancer (incidence), the types of cancer (morphology), the site in the body where the cancer first occurred (primary site), the extent of disease at the time of diagnosis (stage), the planned first course of treatment, and the outcome of treatment and clinical management (survival and vital status). Cancer incidence data are reported to metropolitan area, regional, and statewide cancer registries from a variety of medical facilities, including hospitals, physicians' offices, radiation facilities, freestanding surgical centers, and pathology laboratories. The primary source of data on cancer incidence is medical records. Staff at health care facilities abstract data from patients' medical records, enter it into the facility's own cancer registry if it has one, and then send the data to the regional or state registry. Both NPCR and SEER registries collect data using uniform data items and codes as documented by the North American Association of Central Cancer Registries (NAACCR).  This dataset contains confidential information. Small numbers suppression has been applied to data available.  Five year aggregation is applied.* [Health Care Entity Inspections and Findings](https://data.iowa.gov/d/erbv-fw27) - The Health Facilities Division of the Department of Inspections and Appeals maintains inspection reports and final findings of complaint investigations for a wide variety of health care entities in the State of Iowa. Those entities for which these reports are available include long-term care facilities such as nursing facilities, residential care facilities and intermediate care facilities, as well as assisted living program.* [Rating Area Counties for Iowa Individual Affordable Care Act Premiums](https://data.iowa.gov/d/mfnn-a6tt) - This map relates each Iowa county to the rating areas associated with 2016 Iowa Individual Affordable Care Act Premiums.* [Vehicle Registration Fees by Year and Vehicle Category](https://data.iowa.gov/d/52x4-guky) - The dataset provides vehicle (both motor vehicle and trailer) registration numbers and annual fees by year, county and vehicle types.  Vehicle types include: Automobile, Bus, Moped, Motor Home - A, Motor Home - B, Motor Home - C, Motorcycle, Multi-purpose, Regular Trailer, Semi Trailer, Small Regular Trailer, Small Semi Trailer, Truck Tractor, Travel Trailer, Truck, Truck - Business Trade, and Truck - Weight and List.* [Iowa Veterans Home - Current Residents by County of Admission](https://data.iowa.gov/d/7qer-i2cf) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [State of Iowa Forfeiture Cases](https://data.iowa.gov/d/wenv-4h8b) - This dataset provides forfeiture case information including the money, real estate and vehicles seized in the State of Iowa beginning October 6, 2016.* [Personal Income and Per Capita Personal Income by Quarter in Iowa](https://data.iowa.gov/d/vm3e-atwp) - This dataset provides personal income estimates and per capita personal income estimates for the State of Iowa by calendar quarter.  Estimates for personal income available starting in 1948.  Estimates for per capita personal income available starting in 2010.  Thousands of dollars, seasonally adjusted at annual rates.  All dollar estimates are in current dollars (not adjusted for inflation).

Personal income consists of the income that persons receive in return for their provision of labor, land, and capital used in current production as well as other income, such as personal current transfer receipts. In the state and local personal income accounts the personal income of an area represents the income received by or on behalf of the persons residing in that area. It is calculated as the sum of wages and salaries, supplements to wages and salaries, proprietors' income with inventory valuation (IVA) and capital consumption adjustments (CCAdj), rental income of persons with capital consumption adjustment (CCAdj), personal dividend income, personal interest income, and personal current transfer receipts, less contributions for government social insurance plus the adjustment for residence.* [Family Investment Program Grants by Year](https://data.iowa.gov/d/mv56-eb5v) - The Family Investment Program (FIP) is Iowa's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program. FIP provides cash assistance to needy families, as they become self-supporting so children may be cared for in their own homes or in the homes of relatives.  Data are provided on the number of cases (families) served, the number of recipients served and the dollar value of the payments provided summed by month and county starting January 2011 and updated monthly. A case is defined as a family group who receives FIP assistance together. A recipient is an individual on a FIP case.* [Sample 2018 Iowa Individual Affordable Care Act-Compliant Premiums](https://data.iowa.gov/view/tq3f-zzdn) - <div>Sample premium information for individual ACA-compliant health insurance plans available to Iowans for 2018 based on age, rating area and metal level. These are premiums for individuals, not families.&nbsp;Please note that not every plan ID is available in every county.&nbsp; Please go to&nbsp;<a target="_blank" rel="nofollow noreferrer external" href="https://www.healthcare.gov/">healthcare.gov</a>&nbsp;to determine if your plan is available in the county you reside in.<br></div>* [Iowa Economic Development Projects Under Contract](https://data.iowa.gov/view/c76p-8kty) - This page information on economic development projects that have been awarded incentives through Iowa Economic Development Authority programs as early as FY 2003, have signed contracts with the state and are in either the “performance” period, the “maintenance” period or are "in default" as of the end of the fiscal year noted. In most cases, projects are required to have met job, wage and capital investment obligations by their “Project Completion Date”. Beyond the completion date, projects are required to maintain the obligated jobs and investment through the “Maintenance Date." All projects provide information on total project costs, capital investment, as well as the amount of direct assistance and tax credits awarded to the project. Projected and contracted job data is available for all projects. However, project completion jobs and reported jobs is only available for those projects in the "maintenance" period. Projects in the "performance" period are still in the process of being implemented and are not yet complete. Projects in Default were considered “in default” as of the end of the annual report cut-off date (typically end of fiscal year). The status “in default” is a temporary one since businesses are allowed a contractually designated cure period to correct the default. Reasons for being considered “in default” range from not filing required reports to not creating the obligated jobs or investment required by the contract.* [Iowa Veterans Home - Current Veterans by Age](https://data.iowa.gov/d/7msg-k695) - The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.* [Iowa Veterans Home Current and Past Residents](https://data.iowa.gov/view/kkj3-wxk9) - <div>The Iowa Veterans Home provides a continuum of care to Iowa’s veterans and their spouses in an environment focusing on individualized services to enhance their quality of life. The Iowa Veterans Home opened its doors to Iowa veterans and their spouses in 1887. This dataset provides information on its residents.<br></div>* [IowaHousingSearch.org](https://data.iowa.gov/d/qeqb-q3ru) - This is a free resource to help Iowans find a rental home that fits their needs and budget. Property providers can list apartments or homes for rent any time - helping to ensure the list is always current.* [Monthly Medicaid Payments By Vendor](https://data.iowa.gov/view/ttch-3658) - This dataset shows aggregated Medicaid payments, client participation, recipients, bed hold days, and other days by vendors/health care providers by month starting with month ending 7/31/2011. Vendors within this dataset fall into the following categories: Skilled Nursing Facilities, Intermediate Care Facilities,  Residential Care Facilities, State Operated - Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Mental Disabilities, Community-Based Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Mental Disabilities, and Nursing Facilities for the Mentally Ill.* [Sample 2018 Iowa Individual Affordable Care Act-Compliant Premiums](https://data.iowa.gov/d/mud8-ghp5) - Sample premium information for individual ACA-compliant health insurance plans available to Iowans for 2018 based on age, rating area and metal level. These are premiums for individuals, not families. Please note that not every plan ID is available in every county.  Please go to https://www.healthcare.gov/ to determine if your plan is available in the county you reside in.* [Assisted Living Programs in Iowa](https://data.iowa.gov/d/67aj-bdft) - An Assisted Living Program (ALP) provides housing with contracted services for eligible seniors.  The contracted services may include health-related care, personal care, and assistance with activities of daily living.  Assisted living programs are to provide the housing and services in a homelike environment that encourages family involvement, tenant self-direction, and tenant participation in decisions.  A Dementia-Specific Assisted Living Program (ALP/D) is designed to provide specialized care for persons with dementia between Stages 4 and 7 on the Global Deterioration Scale in a dedicated setting.  Only programs that are certified by the Health Facilities Division of the Department of Inspections and Appeals may call themselves Assisted Living Programs.* [Iowa Perpetual Care Cemeteries](https://data.iowa.gov/d/qfme-aw7v) - According to Iowa law, a “Perpetual Care Cemetery” is a cemetery which has established an irrevocable trust fund for the maintenance, repair, and care of all interment spaces, features, buildings, roadways, parking lots, water supply, and other existing cemetery structures.  All new cemeteries that were organized or that commenced business in Iowa on or after July 1, 2005, must operate as a perpetual care cemetery.  Cemeteries that were organized before that date may or may not be perpetual care cemeteries.  This dataset provides a list of perpetual care cemeteries registered with the Iowa Insurance Division.* [Sample 2019 Iowa Individual Affordable Care Act-Compliant Premiums](https://data.iowa.gov/d/smvn-ctjb) - Sample premium information for individual ACA-compliant health insurance plans available to Iowans for 2019 based on age, rating area and metal level. These are premiums for individuals, not families. Please note that not every plan ID is available in every county. Please go to https://www.healthcare.gov/ to determine if your plan is available in the county you reside in.* [Iowa Physical and Cultural Geographic Features](https://data.iowa.gov/d/uedc-2fk7) - This dataset contains is a list of Iowa features contained in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS).  The GNIS is the Federal standard for geographic nomenclature. The U.S. Geological Survey developed the GNIS for the U.S. Board on Geographic Names, a Federal inter-agency body chartered by public law to maintain uniform feature name usage throughout the Government and to promulgate standard names to the public. The GNIS is the official repository of domestic geographic names data; the official vehicle for geographic names use by all departments of the Federal Government; and the source for applying geographic names to Federal electronic and printed products of all types. See http://geonames.usgs.gov for additional information.  The Geographic Names Information System contains information about physical and cultural geographic features of all types, current and historical, but not including roads and highways. The database assigns a unique, permanent feature identifier, the Feature ID, as a standard Federal key for accessing, integrating, or reconciling feature data from multiple data sets. The GNIS collects data from a broad program of partnerships with Federal, State, and local government agencies and other authorized contributors.* [Iowa Unemployment Insurance Claims (Weekly)](https://data.iowa.gov/d/njph-rx66) - This dataset reports total weekly unemployment insurance initial claims and continued weeks claimed statewide in Iowa by week.
Initial claims data for states are combined and published weekly by the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration. This national data is widely reported as an economic indicator. This data is based on the ETA-539 report.* [Active Iowa Business Entities](https://data.iowa.gov/d/ez5t-3qay) - This dataset provides a list of active business entities, both domestic business organizations (organized under and subject to the laws of Iowa), and foreign business organizations (organized under a law other than Iowa) who are authorized to transact business in the State of Iowa at time of update. The dataset includes the business' legal name, type, effective date, name and address of registered agent, and address of principal office.* [Iowa Standardized Medicare Supplement Rate Changes](https://data.iowa.gov/d/5wjn-gtmu) - Over the last several years, the original standardized plans (A ‐ J) have been updated, and several new plans have been added.

However, for historical rate increase purposes, this data includes all plans whether they are available for sale or not. Only plans with asterisks can be sold under the MIPPA act: A, B, C, D, F, HD‐F, G, K, L, M, and N.* [Highway Access Management - All Priority Levels](https://data.iowa.gov/d/56e6-p9iu) - This map contains all access priority layers, which can be turned on or off in the legend (under Data Layers). Descriptions are below.

The efficiency and safety of a highway depends largely on the amount and character of interruptions to the movement of traffic. The primary cause of these interruptions is vehicular movements to and from business, residences and other developments along the highway. Regulation and overall control of highway access are necessary to provide efficient and safe highway operation and to utilize the full potential of the highway investment. Accordingly, the Iowa DOT has established an access management policy to control access to the Primary Highway System. When right-of-way was obtained for the establishment of the primary highway system, the Iowa Department of Transportation obtained access rights that allow the DOT to restrict direct access to the primary highway. As a result, the DOT has established a functional hierarchy to prioritize the primary highway system. Priority levels are explained below.

Access Priority Level 1 is for four-lane freeways with access allowed only at interchanges - no direct accesses allowed. 

Priority Level 2 is for four-lane rural highways with access at interchanges and selected at-grade locations - 1/2 mile minimum, 1 mile preferred spacing. 

Priority Level 3 is for four-lane rural highways with access at interchanges and selected at-grade locations - 1,000 foot minimum, 1/4 mile preferred spacing.

Priority Level 4 is for two-lane rural highways with fewer limitations on access - 600/300 foot minimum between accesses. 

Other Priority is for accesses granted on a case-by-case basis depending on safety and need. It is not actively managed (formerly 5, 6, and 0).

NOTE: To download this dataset, all layers will need to be downloaded separately. They can all be found on this open data site. If you download this map you will only get one layer.