# data.princeedwardisland.ca health datasets
* [OD0060 Seniors Home Repair Program Activity](https://data.princeedwardisland.ca/d/xupp-unkt) - Seniors Home Repair Program Activity starting with the year 2009/2010
* [OD0028 Acute Care Hospital Expenditures from 2010](https://data.princeedwardisland.ca/d/8ta6-wjyc) - This data set provides an analysis of acute care hospital expenditures for Prince Edward Island, 2010/11 to 2014/15. Hospital operating account expenditures represents funding provided by Government net of revenue to support Acute and Community Hospitals including lab and diagnostic imaging services, dialysis services and hospital pharmacy services. The number of In-Province Acute Care beds includes only those located in the seven hospitals. Expenditures include in-patient as well as outpatient expenditures.
* [OD0002 Pesticide Analysis for Finfish and Shellfish](https://data.princeedwardisland.ca/d/4bk3-u3rm) - This data set provides pesticide sample analyses results for finfish (brook and rainbow trout) and shellfish (mussels and soft shell clams) for the province’s Pesticide Monitoring Program. The sampling includes a total of nine rivers that are tested across PEI, with three of the rivers being sampled each year. Finfish are collected from the river by electrofishing or rod and reel. Shellfish are collected from the same river systems manually, as close to the finfish sampling as possible. The purpose of the sampling is to determine if pesticide residues accumulate in the fish/shellfish.
* [Map of Health PEI Facility Locations](https://data.princeedwardisland.ca/d/ydsn-fgg7) - This data set provides geographic information for Health PEI facilities (Hospitals, Cancer Treatment Centres, Palliative Care Centre, Primary Care Networks, and Public Nursing Homes)
* [OD0001 Pesticide Analysis for Stream Water](https://data.princeedwardisland.ca/d/jj4n-qqq2) - This data set provides pesticide sample analyses results for stream water samples for the province’s Pesticide Monitoring Program. The sampling includes a total of nine rivers across PEI, with three of the rivers being sampled each year. Stream water samples are collected once in July, twice in August (once during a normal/dry weather day and once during wet weather), and once in September. The two samples in July and September are collected during dry weather. Department staff collects the samples, which are then sent to a laboratory for analysis. Results with a "<" represent values below the lab's reporting limit. Such results do not confirm the presence nor the absence of a pesticide compound below that level.
