# data.lacounty.gov health datasets
* [Rural Outdoor Lighting District - Dark Skies (Unincorporated Areas)](https://data.lacounty.gov/d/sbc8-tfuf) - This project is an amendment to Title 22 of the County Code, Planning and Zoning, to establish a Rural Outdoor Lighting District for areas of unincorporated Los Angeles County. The proposed Ordinance will establish the District with regulations that will conserve energy and resources and promote dark skies for the enjoyment and health of humans and wildlife, while permitting reasonable uses of outdoor lighting for nighttime safety and security. The regulations include limitations on allowable light trespass, fully shielding outdoor lighting, and imposes maximum heights of fixtures. The draft ordinance includes requirements for street lighting in rural areas, outdoor recreation facilities and signs. The draft map depicts areas located within the proposed District.

For more information contact the Ordinance Studies Section or go to Rural Outdoor Lighting District Ordinance at http://planning.lacounty.gov/view/rural_outdoor_lighting_district_ordinance/.  For more information about adopted plans (including a complete list) go to:  http://planning.lacounty.gov/plans/adopted.  

UPDATED on 10/29/14 to remove from Santa Monica Mountains Coastal Zone following certification of plan by Coastal Commission.* [Assessor Parcels Data - Cross Ref 2009 thru 2018](https://data.lacounty.gov/d/wked-mw3k) - Valuation and property description for parcels on the Assessor's annual Cross Reference rolls 2009 through 2018. The default sort is by AssessorID and ascending RollYear within AssessorID.  Cross Reference AssessorID's all start with "89" (ie 89xx-xxx-xxx).* [Health Districts (2012)](https://data.lacounty.gov/d/7yts-2b49) - The Provisional Health District Layer contains Department of Public Health Health Districts as of 2011, which are aggregates of 2010 Census Tracts. Furthermore, Health Districts comprise the building blocks of Los Angeles County Service Planning Areas (SPAs). The Provisional Health Districts were created by the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health for planning purposes and are subject to change.