# data.ny.gov health datasets
* [Mental Health Readmission](https://data.ny.gov/d/ke9m-imcz) - New York State is moving Medicaid behavioral health services from a fee-for-service system into Managed Care. OMH/OASAS Medicaid Behavioral Health Measures were developed to help monitor the transition of mental health and substance use disorder services from a fee-for-service to behavioral managed care. The MH Readmission dataset displays percentages of Medicaid discharges for members 6-64 years of age who were hospitalized in an inpatient setting with a primary diagnosis of mental illness that were followed by an unplanned Mental Health readmission within 30 and 90 days of discharge.
* [City University of New York (CUNY) University Degrees Granted per Degree Type: Beginning 1966](https://data.ny.gov/d/ybg5-afvs) - Trends in degrees granted at CUNY by degree type:1.Certificate 2. Associate 3. Baccalaureate 4. Master's 5. Advance Certificate 6. J.D. 7. Master of Philosophy 8. PhD
* [Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) Outcomes](https://data.ny.gov/d/rbfa-c2cy) - This dataset contains the number of ACT consumers withinparticular psychosocial and service utilization indicators atbaseline and most recent follow-up; by ACT team/program,county, region, and statewide. It also contains the number ofindividuals within each discharge reason for the current yearand the previous year; by ACT team/program, county, region,and statewide.
* [Substance Use Disorder Continuity of Medication](https://data.ny.gov/d/vbt5-m68g) - New York State is moving Medicaid behavioral health services from a fee-for-service system into Managed Care. OMH/OASAS Medicaid Behavioral Health Measures were developed to help monitor the transition of mental health and substance use disorder services from a fee-for-service to behavioral managed care. The SUD Continuity of Medication dataset displays percentages of Medicaid discharges for members 6-64 years of age who were hospitalized in a SUD inpatient detoxification or SUD inpatient rehabilitation setting that were filled prescription for anti-addiction medication within a period of discharge.
* [Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) Admissions Summary (Baseline)](https://data.ny.gov/d/x5gj-r3vh) - This dataset contains the number of ACT consumers within each demographic, risk, and service utilization category at baseline; by ACT team/program, county, region, and statewide.
* [PSYCKES Antipsychotic Polypharmacy Quality Indicators: Beginning 2012](https://data.ny.gov/d/gppk-4zzn) - The PSYCKES antipsychotic polypharmacy measure data set provides a count of how many New York State Medicaid enrollees are eligible to be included in the measure (individuals prescribed any antipsychotic medication), the count of how many enrollees meet criteria for the flag (individuals prescribed two or more [2AP] or three or more [3AP] antipsychotic medications concurrently for more than 90 days), and the percentage of enrollees flagged.
* [Residential Existing Homes (One-to-Four Units) Energy Efficiency Projects for Households with Income up to 60% State Median Income: Beginning January 2018](https://data.ny.gov/d/4a2x-yp8g) - IMPORTANT! PLEASE READ DISCLAIMER BEFORE USING DATA. To reduce the energy burden on income-qualified households within New York State, NYSERDA offers the EmPower New York (EmPower) program, a retrofit program that provides cost-effective electric reduction measures (i.e., primarily lighting and refrigerator replacements), and cost-effective home performance measures (i.e., insulation air sealing, heating system repair and replacments, and health and safety measures) to income qualified homeowners and renters. Home assessments and implementation services are provided by Building Performance Institute (BPI) Goldstar contractors to reduce energy use for low income households. This data set includes energy efficiency projects completed since January 2018 for households with income up to 60% area (county) median income. D I S C L A I M E R: Estimated Annual kWh Savings, Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings, and First Year Energy Savings $ Estimate represent contractor reported savings derived from energy modeling software calculations and not actual realized energy savings. The accuracy of the Estimated Annual kWh Savings and Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings for projects has been evaluated by an independent third party. The results of the impact analysis indicate that, on average, actual savings amount to 54 percent of the Estimated Annual kWh Savings and 70 percent of the Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings. The analysis did not evaluate every single project, but rather a sample of projects from 2007 and 2008, so the results are applicable to the population on average but not necessarily to any individual project which could have over or under achieved in comparison to the evaluated savings. The results from the impact analysis will be updated when more recent information is available. Some reasons individual households may realize savings different from those projected include, but are not limited to, changes in the number or needs of household members, changes in occupancy schedules, changes in energy usage behaviors, changes to appliances and electronics installed in the home, and beginning or ending a home business. For more information, please refer to the Evaluation Report published on NYSERDA’s website at: https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/-/media/Files/Publications/PPSER/Program-Evaluation/2012ContractorReports/2012-EmPower-New-York-Impact-Report.pdf. This dataset includes the following data points for projects completed after January 1, 2018: Reporting Period, Project ID, Project County, Project City, Project ZIP, Gas Utility, Electric Utility, Project Completion Date, Total Project Cost (USD), Pre-Retrofit Home Heating Fuel Type, Year Home Built, Size of Home, Number of Units, Job Type, Type of Dwelling, Measure Type, Estimated Annual kWh Savings, Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings, First Year Modeled Energy Savings $ Estimate (USD).
* [Directory of Area Agency on Aging (AAA) Service Providers](https://data.ny.gov/d/t8nk-j66w) - This data set from NYS Office for the Aging (OFA) provides a listing of community resources to help the public find services for older and disabled New Yorkers. Included is information on AAAs (Area Agencies on Aging), local offices that plan, develop and support comprehensive in-home and community services.
* [Boats For Hire Near NYS Canal System](https://data.ny.gov/d/ibtm-q4dj) - A listing of boats for hire (rentals and cruises) that are near the NYS Canal System
* [Day Treatment Service Provider Agencies Map](https://data.ny.gov/d/mqwg-me38) - This map shows the address, phone number information and URL for Day Treatment Provider Agencies. The main dataset is a complete listing of Provider Agencies of the following Office for People with Developmental Disabilities (OPWDD) supports and services: Intermediate Care Facilities (ICFs), Individual Residential Alternative (IRAs), Family Care, Consolidated Supports And Services, Individual Support Services (ISSs), Day Training, Day Treatment, Senior/Geriatric Services, Day Habilitation, Work Shop, Prevocational, Supported Employment Enrollments, Community Habilitation, Family Support Services, Care At Home Waiver Services, and Developmental Centers And Special Population Services. The State sector district offices (DDSOs) have remained in the Developmental Disabilities Service Provider Agencies data because they too are identified by a provider agency code that identifies the voluntary providers.
* [Mental Health Continuity of Medication](https://data.ny.gov/d/f6xz-p4ni) - New York State is moving Medicaid behavioral health services from a fee-for-service system into Managed Care. OMH/OASAS Medicaid Behavioral Health Measures were developed to help monitor the transition of mental health and substance use disorder services from a fee-for-service to behavioral managed care. The MH Continuity of Medication dataset displays percentages of Medicaid discharges for members 6-64 years of age who were hospitalized in an inpatient setting with a primary diagnosis of mental illness that a prescription for a psychotropic medication was filled within 30 days of discharge.
* [Children in Foster Care, by County, Annually: Beginning 1994](https://data.ny.gov/d/7rx3-ptxz) - The purpose of this data set is to provide information on the total number of admissions, discharges, and children in foster care, the type of care, and total Child Protective Services (CPS) reports indicated during period.
* [Patient Characteristics Survey (PCS): 2013](https://data.ny.gov/d/ck8p-rrj5) - The number of persons described by survey year (2013) reported in OMH Region-specific totals (Region of Provider) and three demographic characteristics of the client served during the week of the survey: gender (Male, Female,Transgender Male, Transgender Female), age (below 5,5–12, 13–17, 18–20, 21–34, 35–44, 45–64, 65–74, 75 and above, and unknown age) and race (White only, Black/ African American Only, Multi-racial, Other and unknown race) and ethnicity (Non-Hispanic, Hispanic, and Unknown). Persons with Hispanic ethnicity are grouped as “Hispanic,” regardless of race or races reported.
* [Patient Characteristics Survey (PCS): 2015](https://data.ny.gov/d/fyvf-c7s6) - The number of persons described by survey year (2015) reported in OMH Region‐specific totals (Region of Provider) and three demographic characteristics of the client served during the week of the survey: sex (Male, Female, and Unknown), Transgender (No, Not Transgender; Yes, Transgender and Unknown), age (below 17 (Child), 18 and above(Adult) and unknown age) and race (White only, Black Only, Multi‐racial, Other and Unknown race) and ethnicity (Non‐Hispanic, Hispanic, Client Did Not Answer and Unknown). Persons with Hispanic ethnicity are grouped as “Hispanic,” regardless of race or races reported.
* [Residential Existing Homes (One to Four Units) Energy Efficiency Projects with Income-based Incentives by Customer Type: Beginning 2010](https://data.ny.gov/d/assk-vu73) - IMPORTANT! PLEASE READ DISCLAIMER BEFORE USING DATA. The Residential Existing Homes Program is a market transformation program that uses Building Performance Institute (BPI) Goldstar contractors to install comprehensive energy-efficient improvements.  The program is designed to use building science and a whole-house approach to reduce energy use in the State’s existing one-to-four family and low-rise multifamily residential buildings and capture heating fuel and electricity-related savings.  The Program provides income-based incentives, including an assisted subsidy for households with income up to 80% of the State or Median County Income, whichever is higher to install eligible energy efficiency improvements including building shell measures, high efficiency heating and cooling measures, ENERGY STAR appliances and lighting.   D I S C L A I M E R: Estimated Annual kWh Savings, Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings, and First Year Energy Savings $ Estimate represent contractor reported savings derived from energy modeling software calculations and not actual realized energy savings. The accuracy of the Estimated Annual kWh Savings and Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings for projects has been evaluated by an independent third party. The results of the impact analysis indicate that, on average, actual savings amount to 35 percent of the Estimated Annual kWh Savings and 65 percent of the Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings. The analysis did not evaluate every single project, but rather a sample of projects from 2007 and 2008, so the results are applicable to the population on average but not necessarily to any individual project which could have over or under achieved in comparison to the evaluated savings. The results from the impact analysis will be updated when more recent information is available. Many factors influence the degree to which estimated savings are realized, including proper calibration of the savings model and the savings algorithms used in the modeling software. Some reasons individual households may realize savings different from those projected include, but are not limited to, changes in the number or needs of household members, changes in occupancy schedules, changes in energy usage behaviors, changes to appliances and electronics installed in the home, and beginning or ending a home business. Beginning November 2017, the Program requires the use of HPXML-compliant modeling software tools and data quality protocols have been implemented to more accurately project savings. For more information, please refer to the Evaluation Report published on NYSERDA’s website at:  http://www.nyserda.ny.gov/-/media/Files/Publications/PPSER/Program-Evaluation/2012ContractorReports/2012-HPwES-Impact-Report-with-Appendices.pdf.   The New York Residential Existing Homes (One to Four Units) dataset includes the following data points for projects completed during Green Jobs Green-NY, beginning November 15, 2010: Home Performance Project ID, Home Performance Site ID, Project County, Project City, Project Zip, Gas Utility, Electric Utility, Project Completion Date, Customer Type, Low-Rise or Home Performance Indicator, Total Project Cost (USD), Total Incentives (USD), Type of Program Financing, Amount Financed Through Program (USD), Pre-Retrofit Home Heating Fuel Type, Year Home Built, Size of Home, Volume of Home, Number of Units, Measure Type, Estimated Annual kWh Savings, Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings, First Year Energy Savings $ Estimate (USD), Homeowner Received Green Jobs-Green NY Free/Reduced Cost Audit (Y/N)
* [Home Delivered Meals Served, by County, by the Office for the Aging: Beginning 1974](https://data.ny.gov/d/5y5b-3gjx) - This dataset is a listing of congregate and home delivered meals served 1974 to the present by the network of Area Agencies on Aging (AAAs). AAAs - local offices for the Aging - provide services at senior center locations either directly or through subcontracts. Services may include but are not limited to congregate meals, health promotion, educational programs, recreation, etc.
* [Local Data Index](https://data.ny.gov/view/vgx8-sf6x) - <div>Discover published data which is local in nature. A local search will return results which include the statewide dataset, which can then be searched and/or filtered to view a specific locality. For numerous statewide datasets, it provides quick access to local information across a broad range of categories from health to transportation, from recreation to economic development; Find local farmer’s markets, child care regulated facilities, solar installations, food service establishment inspections, and much more. Datasets may be searched on one or more local attributes (e.g., county, city), depending upon the granularity of the data.&nbsp; See the overview document <a href="http://on.ny.gov/1SB66oL">http://on.ny.gov/1SB66oL</a>&nbsp;in the “About” section of the source dataset for ways to search specific localities within Statewide datasets.<br></div>
* [Residential Existing Homes (One to Four Units) Energy Efficiency Projects with Income-based Incentives by Customer Type: Beginning 2010](https://data.ny.gov/view/qc7x-vakk) - <div><p class="x_MsoNormal">IMPORTANT! PLEASE READ DISCLAIMER BEFORE USING DATA. The Residential Existing Homes Program is a market transformation program that uses Building Performance Institute (BPI) Goldstar contractors to install comprehensive energy-efficient improvements.&nbsp; The program is designed to use building science and a whole-house approach to reduce energy use in the State’s existing one-to-four family and low-rise multifamily residential buildings and capture heating fuel and electricity-related savings.&nbsp; The Program provides income-based incentives, including an assisted subsidy for households with income up to 80% of the State or Median County Income, whichever is higher to install eligible energy efficiency improvements including building shell measures, high efficiency heating and cooling measures, ENERGY STAR appliances and lighting. </p><p class="x_MsoNormal" style="background:white"><span lang="EN">&nbsp;</span></p><p class="x_MsoNormal" style="background:white"><span lang="EN">D I S C L A I M E R: Estimated Annual kWh Savings, Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings, and First Year Energy Savings $ Estimate represent contractor reported savings derived from energy modeling software calculations and not actual realized energy savings. The accuracy of the Estimated Annual kWh Savings and Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings for projects has been evaluated by an independent third party. The results of the impact analysis indicate that, on average, actual savings amount to 35 percent of the Estimated Annual kWh Savings and 65 percent of the Estimated Annual MMBtu Savings. The analysis did not evaluate every single project, but rather a sample of projects from 2007 and 2008, so the results are applicable to the population on average but not necessarily to any individual project which could have over or under achieved in comparison to the evaluated savings. The results from the impact analysis will be updated when more recent information is available. Many factors influence the degree to which estimated savings are realized, including proper calibration of the savings model and the savings algorithms used in the modeling software. Some reasons individual households may realize savings different from those projected include, but are not limited to, changes in the number or needs of household members, changes in occupancy schedules, changes in energy usage behaviors, changes to appliances and electronics installed in the home, and beginning or ending a home business. Beginning November 2017, the Program requires the use of HPXML-compliant modeling software tools and data quality protocols have been implemented to more accurately project savings. For more information, please refer to the Evaluation Report published on NYSERDA’s website at: &nbsp;</span><a href="http://www.nyserda.ny.gov/-/media/Files/Publications/PPSER/Program-Evaluation/2012ContractorReports/2012-HPwES-Impact-Report-with-Appendices.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><span lang="EN">http://www.nyserda.ny.gov/-/media/Files/Publications/PPSER/Program-Evaluation/2012ContractorReports/2012-HPwES-Impact-Report-with-Appendices.pdf</span></a><span lang="EN">. </span></p><p class="x_MsoNormal" style="background:white"><span lang="EN">&nbsp;</span></p><p class="x_MsoNormal" style="background:white"><span lang="EN">The New York Residential Existing Homes (One to Four Units) dataset includes the following data points for projects completed during Green Jobs Green-NY, beginning November 15, 2010: Home Performance Project ID, Home Performance Site ID, Project County, Project City, Project Zip, Gas Utility, Electric Utility, Project Completion Date, Customer Type, Low-Rise or Home Performance Indicator, Total Project Cost (USD), Total Incentives (USD), Type of Program Financing, Amount Financed Through Program (USD), Pre-Retrofit Home Heating Fuel Type, Year Home Built, Size of Home, Volume of Home, Number of Units, Measure Type, Estimated Annual kWh Sav
* [Local Data Index](https://data.ny.gov/d/mxu7-dpdx) - Discover the breadth of data collected by the state which is local in nature. Search by county and municipality and discover, explore, and download local data. With a click, find local data across a broad range of categories from health to transportation, from recreation to economic development; find local farmer’s markets, child care regulated facilities, craft beverages, solar installations, food service establishment inspections, and much more.
* [Active Sporting License Issuing Agents](https://data.ny.gov/d/66qd-rvmy) - The name, mailing address and telephone number for the retail establishments and municipalities that sell hunting, fishing, and trapping licenses and associated privileges and permits.
* [Mental Health Ambulatory Follow-up](https://data.ny.gov/d/bint-t9ha) - New York State is moving Medicaid behavioral health services from a fee-for-service system into Managed Care. OMH/OASAS Medicaid Behavioral Health Measures were developed to help monitor the transition of mental health and substance use disorder services from a fee-for-service to behavioral managed care. The MH Ambulatory Follow-up dataset displays percentages of Medicaid discharges for members 6-64 years of age who were hospitalized in an inpatient setting with a primary diagnosis of mental illness that were followed by an outpatient visit, an intensive outpatient encounter or partial hospitalization for mental health treatment within 7 and 30 days of discharge.
* [RSBS: Single Family On-Site Inspections, Measure Level, New York State Residential Statewide Baseline Study](https://data.ny.gov/d/c8sd-bzeb) - The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA), in collaboration with the New York State Department of Public Service (DPS), conducted a statewide residential baseline study (study) from 2011 to 2014 of the single-family and multifamily residential housing segments, including new construction, and a broad range of energy uses and efficiency measures. This dataset includes data collected from a total of 700 on-site inspections of single family buildings. The types of data collected during the inspections covers property characteristics, heating and cooling equipment, water heating equipment, appliances, lighting, clothes washing and drying, miscellaneous energy using equipment, and observable operating behavior. The objective of the inspections was to enhance the residential baseline study with detailed on-site information and, to the degree possible, verify self-reported data from the phone and web surveys.
* [Trend, by Days in Care, for Children in Foster Care, Chart: Beginning 1994](https://data.ny.gov/d/qt6z-3dke) - The purpose of this data set is to provide information on the total number of admissions, discharges, and children in foster care, the type of care, and total Child Protective Services (CPS) reports indicated during period.
* [Directory of Aging and Disability Community Resources](https://data.ny.gov/d/jwv3-3scj) - This data set from NYS Office for the Aging (OFA) provides a listing of community resources to help the public find services for older and disabled New Yorkers. Included is information on: AAAs (Area Agencies on Aging), local offices that plan, develop and support comprehensive in-home and community services; HIICAPs (Health Insurance Information Counseling Program) that provide free, accurate and objective information, counseling, assistance and advocacy on Medicare, private health insurance, and related health coverage plans; LTCOP (Long Term Care Ombudsman Program) office resources and advocates for older adults and persons with disabilities who live in nursing homes, assisted living and other licensed adult care homes; and NYConnects, trusted places for information and assistance about long term services and supports whether you are paying for services yourself, through insurance, or eligible for a government program.
* [Participating Lenders with SONYMA (State of New York Mortgage Agency)](https://data.ny.gov/d/h59s-qeza) - This is a current listing of participating State of New York Mortgage Agency (SONYMA) lenders, their main office addresses and phone numbers, their websites, the SONYMA regions they service and the regional contact phone number.
* [Bridge Conditions, NYS Department of Transportation](https://data.ny.gov/d/wpyb-cjy8) - New York State inspectors assess all of the bridges every two years including a bridge’s individual parts. Bridges are analyzed for their capacity to carry vehicular loads. Inspectors are required to evaluate, assign a condition score, and document the condition of up to 47 structural elements, including rating 25 components of each span of a bridge, in addition to general components common to all bridges. The NYSDOT condition rating scale ranges from 1 to 7, with 7 being in new condition and a rating of 5 or greater considered as good conditionBridges that cannot safely carry heavy vehicles, such as some tractor trailers, are posted with weight limits. Based upon inspection and load capacity analysis, any bridge deemed unsafe gets closed.
* [Mental Health Engagement in Care](https://data.ny.gov/d/my7w-v2ue) - New York State is moving Medicaid behavioral health services from a fee-for-service system into Managed Care. OMH/OASAS Medicaid Behavioral Health Measures were developed to help monitor the transition of mental health and substance use disorder services from a fee-for-service to behavioral managed care. The MH Engagement in Care dataset displays percentages of Medicaid discharges for members 6-64 years of age who were hospitalized in an inpatient setting with a primary diagnosis of mental illness that were followed by two or more outpatient visits, intensive outpatient encounters or partial hospitalizations for mental health treatment within 30 days of discharge.
* [Bridges To Health Service Agencies](https://data.ny.gov/d/8kxa-52ch) - Included in this data set are all the Health Care Integration Agencies (HCIA) authorized to provide Bridges to Health (B2H) services in New York State. These community based services are available to children with significant mental health care needs, developmental disabilities or medical fragility who would otherwise require an institutional level of care.
* [RSBS MOM: Part 2 of 2, New York State Residential Statewide Baseline Study: Survey of Multifamily Owners and Managers](https://data.ny.gov/d/hc4z-b2p5) - This is part 2 of 2 (containing: Purchasing Decisions; Washer and Dryer; and Miscellaneous); part 1 (https://data.ny.gov/d/e58s-chjh) contains: Property Characteristics; Heating and Cooling; Water Heating; Tenant Appliances; Lighting; and Common Area. The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA), in collaboration with the New York State Department of Public Service (DPS), conducted a statewide residential baseline study (study) from 2011 to 2014 of the single-family and multifamily residential housing segments, including new construction, and a broad range of energy uses and efficiency measures. This dataset includes data from 219 completed Multifamily owner and manager surveys. The types of data collected during the survey cover property characteristics, heating and cooling equipment, water heating equipment, tenant appliances, lighting, purchasing decision, common areas, clothes washing and drying, and miscellaneous equipment. The data is segmented to cover both common space equipment and, to the degree possible, tenant-unit equipment, such as refrigerators or clothes washers that are included in the rental by the building ownership.
* [Real Property Tax Rates Levy Data By Municipality: Beginning 2004](https://data.ny.gov/d/iq85-sdzs) - The Department of Taxation and Finance annually produces a data file providing property tax rates and levies for the taxing jurisdictions in New York State. The data are culled from files on the State Comptroller’s website. The dataset takes each school district segment and provides the levy for county, municipal and school tax purposes, as well as the tax rates that apply in those taxing jurisdictions.
* [NYSERDA Low- to Moderate-Income New York State Census Population Analysis Dataset: Average for 2013-2015](https://data.ny.gov/d/bui8-bb6g) - The Low- to Moderate-Income (LMI) New York State (NYS) Census Population Analysis dataset is resultant from the LMI market database designed by APPRISE as part of the NYSERDA LMI Market Characterization Study (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/lmi-tool). All data are derived from the U.S. Census Bureau’s American Community Survey (ACS) 1-year Public Use Microdata Sample (PUMS) files for 2013, 2014, and 2015. Each row in the LMI dataset is an individual record for a household that responded to the survey and each column is a variable of interest for analyzing the low- to moderate-income population. The LMI dataset includes: county/county group, households with elderly, households with children, economic development region, income groups, percent of poverty level, low- to moderate-income groups, household type, non-elderly disabled indicator, race/ethnicity, linguistic isolation, housing unit type, owner-renter status, main heating fuel type, home energy payment method, housing vintage, LMI study region, LMI population segment, mortgage indicator, time in home, head of household education level, head of household age, and household weight. The LMI NYS Census Population Analysis dataset is intended for users who want to explore the underlying data that supports the LMI Analysis Tool. The majority of those interested in LMI statistics and generating custom charts should use the interactive LMI Analysis Tool at https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/lmi-tool. This underlying LMI dataset is intended for users with experience working with survey data files and producing weighted survey estimates using statistical software packages (such as SAS, SPSS, or Stata).
