# greengov.data.ca.gov health datasets
* [Stormwater Inspections 1991 - 2016](https://greengov.data.ca.gov/d/8s76-5ntc) - State Water Resources Control Board Stormwater Inspections from 1991 to 2016. SMARTS data obtained on 3/24/2016.
* [Environmental Data Exchange Network - Chemistry Data 2005-2015](https://greengov.data.ca.gov/d/pm7e-euz8) - This data provides results from chemistry and field analyses.
* [Environmental Data Exchange Network - Tissue Data 1950-2014](https://greengov.data.ca.gov/d/s5r2-7297) - This data set provides results of tissue from organisms found in surface waters. The data are of tissue from individual organisms and of composite samples where tissue samples from multiple organisms are combined and then analyzed. Both the individual samples and the composite sample results may be given so for individual samples, there will be a row for the individual sample and a row for the composite where the number per composite is one.
* [Water Board Stormwater Notice Of Intent 1990 - 2016](https://greengov.data.ca.gov/d/x76j-7g4u) - This data set lists active and historical notice of intent records that are stored in the Storm Water Multiple Application and Report Tracking System (SMARTS) . Notice of intent to comply with National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit is submitted by a discharger to apply for stormwater permit coverage.
* [Surface Water Toxicity 2003-2014](https://greengov.data.ca.gov/d/8smq-t728) - Surface water toxicity data from the California Environmental Data Exchange Network (CEDEN). CEDEN is the California State Water Board's data system for surface water quality in California, and seeks to include all available statewide data (such as that produced by research and volunteer organizations). Data in CEDEN include field, sediment and water column data collected from freshwater, estuarine, and marine environments. Examples of data in CEDEN come from laboratory, physical and biological analyses and include data types associated with chemical, toxicological, field, bioassessment, invertebrate, fish, and bacteriological assay assessments.
