# health.data.ny.gov health datasets
* [Managed Care Utilization: Inpatient Discharges by Category and Payer: Latest Data](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/37es-wxei) - The column chart illustrates the distribution of inpatient discharges by service category for Medicaid, Commercial HMO, and Commercial PPO Payers. The chart uses statewide average rates of all insurance plans. For more information please visit http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/reports/quality_performance_improvement.htm#link5. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Managed Care Institutional Provider Network Data: June 30, 2017](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/3kwf-gzwy) - The primary purpose for the Provider Network Data System is to collect data needed to evaluate the provider networks including physicians, hospitals, labs, home health agencies, durable medical equipment providers, etc., for all types of health plans in New York State. Beginning in 2017, the PNDS includes Medicaid Managed Care (MMC), HIV Special Need Plans (SNP), Health and Recovery Plans (HARP), Child Health Plus (CHP), Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), Non-PACE Managed Long-Term Care (MLTC) plans, Qualified Health Plans (QHP), Essential Plans (EP), and commercial plans (commercial plan reporting will be incomplete until Q2 2017). This dataset reflects institutional provider data. Provider Network Data System information is self-reported by health plans. The PNDS data dictionary can be found at http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/docs/dictionary.pdf. To use the NYS Provider & Health Plan Look-Up Tool, click on the following link, https://pndslookup.health.ny.gov/.
* [Managed Care Individual Provider Network Data: March 31, 2015](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/8hzm-qj36) - The primary purpose for the Provider Network Data System is to collect data needed to evaluate the provider networks including physicians, hospitals, labs, home health agencies, durable medical equipment providers, etc., for all types of Managed Care plans in New York State, including HIV Special Need Plans (SNP), Family Health Plus (FHP) Buy-In, Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), and Non-PACE Managed Long-Term Care (MLTC) plans. This dataset reflects individual provider data. Provider Network Data System information is self-reported. For more information, check out http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/.
* [Mobile Home Parks Map: Last Inspection](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/q6fa-5swt) - This data includes the name and location of active mobile home parks operating in New York State. Active mobile home parks include only parks that were categorized as active (i.e. operating with accommodations for the placement of five or more mobile or manufactured homes) on the date the data was downloaded from a DOH database. Additionally, the data includes the park owner-operator, the number of sites within the park, the type of on-site water source and sewage disposal system serving the mobile home park, and whether a pool or beach is operated as part of the mobile home park. The location of the mobile home park includes its street address, city, state, zip code, municipality, and county. This data also includes the date of the last inspection and violations of Part 17 of the New York State Code of Rules and Regulations that were identified during that inspection. For more information about Part 17 of the New York State Code of Rules and Regulations, go to https://www.health.ny.gov/regulations/nycrr/title_10/part_17/. For more information about this dataset, check out https://health.data.ny.gov/Health/Mobile-Home-Parks-Last-Inspection/d3mj-xg62 or click on the "About" tab.
* [Healthy Neighborhoods Program, Funded Counties by Funding Cycle](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/6fnw-x6g6) - This filtered view of the dataset is a list of the county health departments that were granted funds to implement the Healthy Neighborhoods Program (HNP) during each of three funding cycles (2006-2009, 2009-2014, and 2014-2019). The list of county health departments differs across funding cycles. For example, Albany County received funding from 2006-2014, whereas Clinton County has received funding continuously since 2006. It is important to be aware of the funding history for each county when looking at trends in housing demographics and conditions. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [All Payer Inpatient Potentially Preventable Complication (PPC) Individual Rates by Hospital (SPARCS): Beginning 2013](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/4zp8-tpr2) - The dataset shows each of the 65 individual Potentially Preventable Complication (PPC) measures, providing observed and risk-adjusted rates for all payer discharges by hospital and statewide, beginning in 2013. Potentially Preventable Complications (PPC), obtained from software created by 3M Health Information Systems, are defined as harmful events or negative outcomes that develop or occur during hospitalization and may result from processes of care and treatment rather than from natural progression of the underlying illness. The PPCs were calculated using Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) inpatient data.
* [MLTC: Timeliness Composite by Plan](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/ngr8-ixax) - This chart shows the risk-adjusted percentage of members who reported that within the last six months the home health aide/personal care aide/personal assistant, care manager/case manager, regular visiting nurse/registered nurse, or covering/on-call nurse services were usually or always on time by Managed Long-Term Care (MLTC) plan, based on the most recent Biennial Member Satisfaction Survey. This chart also includes the statewide rate. Refer to the Overview document in the Attachment section under the "About" tab for more information on the data sources, time frames, and limitations of this dataset. Refer to the Measure Descriptions document under the "About" tab for more details on this measure.
* [Health Home Adult Health: Plan-All Cause Readmissions](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/3khb-w2ap) - This column chart shows performance measure rates of adult health by Health Home for plan-all cause readmissions. The base dataset contains measures that evaluate the quality of care delivered by Health Homes for the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Core Set and Health Home State Plan Amendment (SPA). To support ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the Health Home model, the CMS has established a recommended Core Set of health care quality measures that it intends to promulgate in the rule making process. Please refer to the Overview document for additional information.
* [All Payer Patient Safety Indicators (PSI) Composite Measures by Hospital: Beginning 2009](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/jjir-cuty) - The datasets contain hospital discharges counts (numerators, denominators, volume counts), observed, expected and risk-adjusted rates with corresponding 95% confidence intervals for Patient Safety Indicators generated using methodology developed by Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). The PSIs are a set of indicators providing information on potential in hospital complications and adverse events following surgeries, procedures, and childbirth. The PSIs were developed by AHRQ after a comprehensive literature review, analysis of ICD-9-CM codes, review by a clinician panel, implementation of risk adjustment, and empirical analyses. All PSI measures were calculated using Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) inpatient data beginning 2009. US Census data files provided by AHRQ were used to derive denominators for county level (area level) PSI measures. The mortality, volume and utilization measures PSIs are presented by hospital as rates or counts. Area-level measures are presented by county as rates.
* [Managed Care Institutional Provider Network Data: June 30, 2016](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/negw-73qw) - The primary purpose for the Provider Network Data System is to collect data needed to evaluate the provider networks including physicians, hospitals, labs, home health agencies, durable medical equipment providers, etc., for all types of Managed Care plans in New York State, including HIV Special Need Plans (SNP), Family Health Plus (FHP) Buy-In, Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), and Non-PACE Managed Long-Term Care (MLTC) plans. This dataset reflects institutional provider data. Provider Network Data System information is self reported. For more information, go to http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/.
* [Nursing Home Cost Report (RHCF): 2011](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/k84q-yeaf) - The Nursing Home Cost Report (RHCF) is a uniform report completed by New York nursing homes to report income, expenses, assets, liabilities, and statistics to the Department of Health (DOH). Under DOH regulations (Part 86-2.2), nursing homes are required to file financial and statistical data with DOH annually. The data filed is part of the cost report and is received electronically through a secured network. This data is used to develop Medicaid rates, assist in the formulation of reimbursement methodologies, and analyze trends.
* [Nursing Home Cost Report (RHCF): 2010](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/5nv2-5vw3) - The Nursing Home Cost Report (RHCF) is a uniform report completed by New York nursing homes to report income, expenses, assets, liabilities, and statistics to the Department of Health (DOH). Under DOH regulations, (Part 86-2.2), nursing homes are required to file financial and statistical data with DOH annually. The data filed is part of the cost report and is received electronically through a secured network. This data is used to develop Medicaid rates, assist in the formulation of reimbursement methodologies, and analyze trends. For more information, check out: http://www.health.ny.gov/facilities/nursing/ or go to the “About “ tab.
* [Managed Care Individual Provider Network Data: June 30, 2016](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/25cc-am9q) - The primary purpose for the Provider Network Data System is to collect data needed to evaluate the provider networks including physicians, hospitals, labs, home health agencies, durable medical equipment providers, etc., for all types of Managed Care plans in New York State, including HIV Special Need Plans (SNP), Family Health Plus (FHP) Buy-In, Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), and Non-PACE Managed Long-Term Care (MLTC) plans. This dataset reflects individual provider data. Provider Network Data System information is self-reported. For more information, check out http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/.
* [Managed Care Individual Provider Network Data: March 31, 2013](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/s7d5-mwif) - The primary purpose for the Provider Network Data System is to collect data needed to evaluate the provider networks including physicians, hospitals, labs, home health agencies, durable medical equipment providers, etc., for all types of Managed Care plans in New York State, including HIV Special Need Plans (SNP), Family Health Plus (FHP) Buy-In, Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), and Non-PACE Managed Long-Term Care (MLTC) plans. This dataset reflects individual provider data. Provider Network Data System information is self-reported. For more information, check out: http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/.
* [Mobile Home Parks: Last Inspection](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/d3mj-xg62) - This dataset includes the name and location of active mobile home parks operating in New York State. Active mobile home parks include only parks that were categorized as active (i.e., operating with accommodations for the placement of five or more mobile or manufactured homes) on the date the data was downloaded from a Department of Health database. This data also includes the date of the last inspection and violations of Part 17 of the New York State Code of Rules and Regulations that were identified during that inspection. Additionally, the data includes the park owner-operator, the number of sites within the park, the type of on-site water source and sewage disposal system serving the mobile home park, and whether a pool or beach is operated as part of the mobile home park. The location of the mobile home park includes its street address, city, state, zip code, municipality, and county.
* [All Payer Inpatient Quality Indicators (IQI) Volume Measures by Hospital (SPARCS): Beginning 2009](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/cskh-k5ew) - The datasets contain hospital discharges counts (numerators, denominators, volume counts), observed, expected and risk-adjusted rates with corresponding 95% confidence intervals for IQIs generated using methodology developed by Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). The IQIs are a set of measures that provide a perspective on hospital quality of care using hospital administrative data. These indicators reflect quality of care inside hospitals and include inpatient mortality for certain procedures and medical conditions; utilization of procedures for which there are questions of overuse, underuse, and misuse; and volume of procedures for which there is some evidence that a higher volume of procedures is associated with lower mortality. All the IQI measures were calculated using Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) inpatient data beginning 2009. US Census data files provided by AHRQ were used to derive denominators for county level (area level) IQI measures. The mortality, volume and utilization measures IQIs are presented by hospital as rates or counts. Area-level utilization measures are presented by county as rates.
* [Health Facility General Information](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/vn5v-hh5r) - This dataset contains the locations of Article 28, Article 36 and Article 40 health care facilities and programs from the Health Facilities Information System (HFIS). Article 28 facilities are hospitals, nursing homes, and diagnostic treatment centers. Article 36 facilities are certified home health care agencies and long term home health care programs. Article 40 facilities are hospices. The dataset currently only contains the locations of hospitals and hospital extension clinics. The data for the remaining facility types will be added in the future.
* [Vaginal Delivery:  Hospital Inpatient Median Costs and Median Charges: Latest Data](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/uypi-99b7) - This line chart compares the median cost vs. median charge for vaginal deliveries with a minor severity of illness by hospital. The dataset contains information submitted by New York State Article 28 Hospitals as part of the New York Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative (SPARCS) and Institutional Cost Report (ICR) data submissions. The dataset contains information on the volume of discharges, All Payer Refined Diagnosis Related Group (APR-DRG), the severity of illness level (SOI), medical or surgical classification the median charge, median cost, average charge and average cost per discharge. When interpreting New York’s data, it is important to keep in mind that variations in cost may be attributed to many factors. Some of these include overall volume, teaching hospital status, facility specific attributes, geographic region and quality of care provided.For more information, check out: http://www.health.ny.gov/statistics/sparcs/. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Radon Test Results By Town: Beginning 1987](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/hbu9-xsrx) - The DOH Radon Program contracts with a radon testing laboratory to provide short-term charcoal radon test kits, radon test kit analysis and results to residents. The contract laboratory provides the radon test results to the individual home owner and the DOH Radon Program. All testing data is entered into our database. From this database, we are able to create radon prevalence maps, design special outreach activities and campaigns, and track the location in the home where the detector was placed.
* [Community Health: Teen Pregnancy Rate per 1,000 Females - Aged 15-17 years by County Map: Latest Data](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/i96b-2q48) - This map shows the teen pregnancy rate per 1,000 females age 15 to 17 by county. Counties are shaded based on quartile distribution. The lighter shaded counties have a lower percentage of teen pregnancy. The darker shaded counties have a higher percentage of teen pregnancy. New York State Community Health Indicator Reports (CHIRS) were developed in 2012, and are updated annually to consolidate and improve data linkages for the health indicators included in the County Health Assessment Indicators (CHAI) for all communities in New York. The CHIRS present data for more than 300 health indicators that are organized by 15 different health topics. Data if provided for all 62 New York State counties, 11 regions (including New York City), the State excluding New York City, and New York State. For more information, check out: http://www.health.ny.gov/statistics/chac/indicators/. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Managed Care Utilization: Emergency Room Visits by Age Group and Payer: Latest Data](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/2btt-nbhb) - The column chart illustrates the statewide rates of emergency room visits by age group and payer. The chart uses statewide average rates of all insurance plans. For more information please visit http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/reports/quality_performance_improvement.htm#link5. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [HAI: Surgical Site Infection (SSI) Overall Standardized Infection Ratio Map: 2017](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/v26j-zz7t) - The point map shows the Surgical Site Infection (SSI) overall standardized infection ratio (SIR) reported for acute care hospitals. The SIR summarizes performance across the following procedures: colon, hip replacement/revision, hysterectomy, and coronary artery bypass graft. The color of the points represent whether the infection ratio is significantly higher, significantly lower, or not significantly different from the NYS average (SIR=1) for the same year. The infection ratio for some acute care hospitals cannot be compared to the NYS average infection ratio because there were less than 20 procedures. All acute care hospitals are required to report certain hospital-acquired infections (HAIs) to the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH). This includes central line-associated blood stream infections; surgical site infections following colon, hip replacement/revision, hysterectomy, and coronary artery bypass graft; Clostridium difficile infections, and carbapenem resistant Enterobacteriaceae infections. PLEASE NOTE: Because of the complicated nature of the risk-adjustment methodology used to produce the HAI rates, the advice of a statistician is recommended before attempting to manipulate the data. Hospital-specific risk-adjusted rates cannot simply be combined. In addition, due to NYSDOH validation audits which may involve data from both the current and previous calendar year, a revised data file will be published the year after the original data file was released. For more information, check out http://www.health.ny.gov/statistics/facilities/hospital/hospital_acquired_infections/. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Hospital Inpatient Discharges (SPARCS De-Identified): 2014](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/rmwa-zns4) - The Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) Inpatient De-identified File contains discharge level detail on patient characteristics, diagnoses, treatments, services, and charges. This data file contains basic record level detail for the discharge. The de-identified data file does not contain data that is protected health information (PHI) under HIPAA. The health information is not individually identifiable; all data elements considered identifiable have been redacted. For example, the direct identifiers regarding a date have the day and month portion of the date removed.
* [Medicaid Electronic Health Records Incentive Program Provider Payments: Beginning 2011](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/6ky4-2v6j) - The dataset consists of details of the payments made by the NYS Medicaid Electronic Health Record (EHR) Incentive program to healthcare professionals and hospitals. Authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009, this program provides multi-year financial incentives to Eligible Professionals (EP) and Eligible Hospitals (EH) who adopt, implement, or upgrade, and subsequently demonstrate meaningful use of certified Electronic Health Records (EHR) technology.
* [Medicaid Inpatient Prevention Quality Indicators (PQI) for Adult Discharges by Patient County: Beginning 2011](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/6kjt-7svn) - The datasets contain number of Medicaid PQI hospitalizations (numerator), county Medicaid population (denominator), observed rate, expected number of hospitalizations and rate, and risk-adjusted rate for Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Prevention Quality Indicators – Adult (AHRQ PQI) for Medicaid enrollees beginning in 2011.
* [Adult Care Facility Directory](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/wssx-idhx) - The Adult Care Facility Directory contains a listing of Adult Care Facilities that are currently licensed in New York State. New York State, through the New York State Department of Health, licenses and supervises adult care facilities which provide temporary or long-term, non-medical residential care services to adults who are substantially unable to live independently.
* [Medicaid Fee for Service Provider Listing](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/keti-qx5t) - This is a list of active Medicaid fee-for-service (FFS) providers including the provider’s profession or service, MMIS ID, MMIS Name, NPI, county, and state. For more information visit https://www.emedny.org/info/ProviderEnrollment/ManagedCareNetwork/index.aspx. This dataset publishes for the first time all enrolled providers in the New York State Medicaid fee for service (FFS) program. This will allow patients with Medicaid FFS coverage to search for potential providers who may be accepting Medicaid FFS patients. This dataset will also enable health plans to confirm Medicaid FFS provider enrollment, which is required under federal law. Section 5005(b)(2) of the 21st Century Cures Act amended Section 1932(d) of the Social Security Act (SSA) requiring that, effective January 1, 2018, all Medicaid Managed Care and Children’s Health Insurance Program providers be enrolled with state Medicaid programs.
* [Adult Care Facility Map](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/6wkx-ptu4) - This map contains the locations of Adult Care Facilities that are currently licensed in New York State. New York State, through the New York State Department of Health, licenses and supervises adult care facilities which provide temporary or long-term, non-medical residential care services to adults who are substantially unable to live independently. For more information, check out: https://www.health.ny.gov/facilities/adult_care/. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Mobile Home Parks Interactive Search](https://health.data.ny.gov/view/9nv7-e9dq) - <div>Quickly search Mobile Home Parks data with these easy to use, interactive maps, graphs, and search cards. Just follow the tips by clicking "Show More".&nbsp;<br></div><div><br></div><div>Quick tips: You can click on the map or use the search cards to find desired data.&nbsp;&nbsp;On the map,&nbsp;hover your cursor over a county and&nbsp;the number of mobile home parks within the&nbsp;county is given.&nbsp; Click&nbsp;on the county and the list of mobile home parks will be presented&nbsp;in the table below the map.&nbsp; With the search cards, as you enter&nbsp;a facility's name, city, or county, a sample of available data is displayed to narrow your search.&nbsp; Narrative describing the main filter option is presented above the cards. Click "Clear" to remove filter(s).<br></div>
* [Hospital Inpatient Discharges (SPARCS De-Identified): 2016](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/gnzp-ekau) - The Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) Inpatient De-identified File contains discharge level detail on patient characteristics, diagnoses, treatments, services, and charges. This data file contains basic record level detail for the discharge. The de-identified data file does not contain data that is protected health information (PHI) under HIPAA. The health information is not individually identifiable; all data elements considered identifiable have been redacted. For example, the direct identifiers regarding a date have the day and month portion of the date removed.
* [Food Service Establishment Map: Last Inspection](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/qd6f-nmcs) - The point map shows violations found during the last inspection of the food service establishments. The initial view of the map is broken up into large geographic areas and displays the number of violations in each area. To drill down to a smaller geographic area, click directly on the area of the map or click the plus sign to zoom in on the map. The map can be filtered by facility, city, and county by changing these options under the Filter tab. Last inspection data is the most recently submitted and available data. Although violation details are collected on inspection reports (i.e., the actual food item, quantity and temperature of food found out of temperature control) as well as corrective actions for critical violations, this data set is limited to the violation number and the corresponding general violation description. Requests for more detailed information or actual copies of inspection reports should be directed to the local health department or State District Office which conducted the inspections in question. This map is for reporting purposes only. Any concerns about individual establishments should be referred to the corresponding Local Health Department. Contact information can be found at http://www.health.ny.gov/environmental/water/drinking/doh_pub_contacts_map.htm This map excludes inspections conducted in New York City (https://nycopendata.socrata.com/), Suffolk County (http://apps.suffolkcountyny.gov/health/Restaurant/intro.html) and Erie County (http://www.healthspace.com/erieny). Inspections are a snapshot in time and are not always reflective of the day-to-day operations and overall condition of an establishment. This map is currently updated monthly. Occasionally, remediation may not appear until the following month due to the timing of the updates. Some counties provide this information on their own websites and information found there may be more frequently updated. For more information check out http://www.health.ny.gov/regulations/nycrr/title_10/part_14/subpart_14-1.htm. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Hospital-Acquired Infections: Beginning 2008](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/utrt-zdsi) - All acute care hospitals are required to report certain hospital-acquired infections (HAIs) to the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH). This includes central line-associated blood stream infections; surgical site infections following colon, hip replacement/revision, coronary artery bypass graft, and hysterectomy; Clostridium difficile infections; and carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae infections.
* [Creating Healthy Places Intervention Counts by Intervention Type](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/8izk-twnj) - This chart shows the counts of Creating Healthy Places interventions by intervention type. Creating Healthy Places to Live Work and Play (CHP2LWP) is a joint five year grant (October 2010 – October 2015) of New York State Department of Health’s Division of Chronic Disease Prevention and Division of Nutrition. The Purpose of the initiative is to implement community level interventions to promote healthy lifestyles to prevent obesity and type 2 diabetes. Twenty-two communities across New York State are funded to carry out this initiative. From a list of 18 policy, systems and environmental interventions, community contractors selected a minimum four to implement. The 18 interventions are grouped into five, broad activity categories. The activities include two that are related to increasing opportunities for physical activity, two that address improving nutrition, and one that addresses both physical activity and nutrition. For more information, check out: http://www.health.ny.gov/prevention/nutrition/healthy_places.htm. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Creating Healthy Places Intervention Locations Map](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/f7wv-37n5) - This point map shows the locations of Creating Health Places interventions. Creating Healthy Places to Live Work and Play (CHP2LWP) is a joint five year grant (October 2010 – October 2015) of New York State Department of Health’s Division of Chronic Disease Prevention and Division of Nutrition. The Purpose of the initiative is to implement community level interventions to promote healthy lifestyles to prevent obesity and type 2 diabetes. Twenty-two communities across New York State are funded to carry out this initiative. From a list of 18 policy, systems and environmental interventions, community contractors selected a minimum four to implement. The 18 interventions are grouped into five, broad activity categories. The activities include two that are related to increasing opportunities for physical activity, two that address improving nutrition, and one that addresses both physical activity and nutrition. For more information, check out: http://www.health.ny.gov/prevention/nutrition/healthy_places.htm. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [All Payer Inpatient Potentially Preventable Complication (PPC) Group Rates by Hospital (SPARCS): Beginning 2013](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/2e6c-n5bc) - The dataset groups 65 individual Potentially Preventable Complication (PPC) measures into 8 different categories, providing observed and risk-adjusted rates for all payer discharges by hospital and statewide, beginning in 2013. Potentially Preventable Complications (PPC), obtained from software created by 3M Health Information Systems, are defined as harmful events or negative outcomes that develop or occur during hospitalization and may result from processes of care and treatment rather than from natural progression of the underlying illness. The PPCs were calculated using Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) inpatient data.
* [Managed Care Individual Provider Network Data: December 31, 2012](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/97uk-ctjs) - The primary purpose for the Provider Network Data System is to collect data needed to evaluate the provider networks including physicians, hospitals, labs, home health agencies, durable medical equipment providers, etc., for all types of Managed Care plans in New York State, including HIV Special Need Plans (SNP), Family Health Plus (FHP) Buy-In, Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), and Non-PACE Managed Long-Term Care (MLTC) plans. This dataset reflects individual provider data. Provider Network Data System information is self-reported. For more information, check out http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/.
* [Radon Test Results: 1st Floor by County Map](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/k2xw-i959) - The boundary map shows radon test results by county. The test results are provided on a monthly basis to the Department of Health’s Radon Program from a contracted radon testing laboratory. The color grading of the counties represent the average radon level of homes tested in the counties.The radon test results illustrated on this map may not be reflective of all radon tests completed in New York State. For more information, check out http://www.health.ny.gov/environmental/radiological/radon/radon.htm. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Radon Test Results: Basement by County Map](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/e3zd-c9mw) - The boundary map shows radon test results by county. The test results are provided on a monthly basis to the Department of Health’s Radon Program from a contracted radon testing laboratory. The color grading of the counties represent the average radon level of homes tested in the counties. The radon test results illustrated on this map may not be reflective of all radon tests completed in New York State. For more information, check out http://www.health.ny.gov/environmental/radiological/radon/radon.htm. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Radon Test Results By County: Beginning 1987](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/8e6u-9695) - The DOH Radon Program contracts with a radon testing laboratory to provide short-term charcoal radon test kits, radon test kit analysis and results to residents. The contract laboratory provides the radon test results to the individual home owner and the DOH Radon Program. All testing data is entered into our database. From this database, we are able to create radon prevalence maps, design special outreach activities and campaigns, and track the location in the home where the detector was placed.
* [Community Health: Percentage obese (95th percentile or higher) children (aged 2-4 years) in WIC: 2009 - 2011](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/hfsa-bkea) - This chart shows the percentage of children 2 to 4 years of age that are obese (95th percentile or higher) by county. New York State Community Health Indicator Reports (CHIRS) were developed in 2012, and annually updated to provide data for over 300 health indicators, organized by 15 health topic and data for all counties, regions and state. To show only certain counties in the chart, enter the names of the counties in the county filter under the Filter tab. For more information, check out: http://www.health.ny.gov/statistics/chac/indicators/. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Active Tobacco Retailer Map](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/88k2-euek) - This map is a listing of active retail tobacco vendors.This data includes the name, subcategory, and location of active retail tobacco vendors operating in New York State. Active retail tobacco vendors include only vendors that were operating during some or all of the program year or measurement period selected. Subcategory includes the type of retail tobacco vendor, such as a convenience store or a grocery supermarket. Address includes the street address, city, state, zip code, municipality, and county where the vendor is located. For more information, check out https://www.health.ny.gov/prevention/tobacco_control/program_components.htm, or click on the "About" tab.
* [Cardiac Surgery by Surgeon: Beginning 2008](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/dk4z-k3xb) - This dataset contains the number of cases, number of in hospital/30 day deaths, observed, expected and risk- adjusted mortality rates for cardiac surgery by surgeon. Physician information is presented for each physician who a) performed 200 or more procedures during the three year analysis and/or b) performed at least one cardiac surgery in each of the three years. The results for physicians not meeting the above criteria are grouped together and reported as “All others” in the hospital in which the procedures are performed. The initial Health Data NY dataset includes patients discharged between January 1, 2008, and December 31, 2010. Analyses of risk-adjusted mortality rates and associated risk factors are provided for 2010 and for the three-year period from 2008 through 2010. Regions represent where the hospitals are located. Subsequent year reports data will be appended to this dataset.
* [Managed Care Utilization Angioplasty Procedures: Latest Data](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/xuv9-bbdi) - The column chart illustrates the statewide rates of angioplasty utilization by gender and payer for measurement year. The chart uses statewide average rates of all insurance plans. Removing the statewide average filter is not recommended. For more information please visit http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/reports/quality_performance_improvement.htm#link5. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Managed Care Utilization Cardiac Catheterization Procedures: Latest Data](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/cnp4-tfz9) - The column chart illustrates the statewide rates of cardiac catheterization utilization by gender and payer for the measurement year. The chart uses statewide average rates of all insurance plans. Removing the statewide average filter is not recommended. For more information please visit http://www.health.ny.gov/health_care/managed_care/reports/quality_performance_improvement.htm#link5. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Hospital Inpatient Potentially Preventable Complication (PPC) Risk Adjusted Rate per 10,000 Discharges (SPARCS)](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/etr2-yywj) - This chart shows risk adjusted rates per 10,000 discharges of Potentially Preventable Complications (PPC) for all payer beneficiaries by hospital. The chart is based on a dataset that contains Potentially Preventable Complications (PPC) observed, expected, and risk-adjusted rates for all payer beneficiaries by hospital beginning in 2009. The Potentially Preventable Complications (PPC), obtained from software created by 3M Health Information Systems, are harmful events or negative outcomes that develop after hospital admission and may result from processes of care and treatment rather than from natural progression of the underlying illness and are therefore potentially preventable. The rates were calculated using Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) inpatient data. The observed, expected and risk adjusted rates for PPC are presented by hospital (including a statewide total). For more information, check out: http://www.health.ny.gov/statistics/sparcs/. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Medicaid Delivery System Reform Incentive Payment (DSRIP) Clinical Metrics: Beginning 2012](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/e2qd-mx59) - This dataset includes Medicaid clinical metrics for Clinical Improvement Projects (Domain 3) of the Delivery System Reform Incentive Payment (DSRIP) Program. The DSRIP program will promote community-level collaborations and focus on system reform, specifically a goal to achieve a 25 percent reduction in avoidable hospital use over five years. As a part of the DSRIP program, Performing Provider System will employ multiple projects both to transform health care delivery as well as to address the broad needs of the population that the performing provider system serves. These projects described in Attachment J are grouped into different strategies, such as behavioral health, within each Domain (System Transformation Projects (Domain 2), Clinical Improvement Projects (Domain 3), and Population-wide Projects (Domain 4). For each strategy, there is a set of metrics that the performing provider system will be responsible for if they do any one of the projects within that strategy. This dataset includes only Domain 3 Clinical Metrics.
* [Community Health:  Age-adjusted percentage of adults obese (BMI 30 or higher): 2008 - 2009](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/mmzn-r7ff) - This chart shows the age-adjusted percentage of adults who are obese (BMI 30 or higher) by county. New York State Community Health Indicator Reports (CHIRS) were developed in 2012, and annually updated to provide data for over 300 health indicators, organized by 15 health topic and data for all counties, regions and state. To show only certain counties in the chart, enter the names of the counties in the county filter under the Filter tab. For more information, check out: http://www.health.ny.gov/statistics/chac/indicators/. The "About" tab contains additional details concerning this dataset.
* [Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) Health Indicators by County and Region](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/jsy7-eb4n) - Data from the 2013-2014 New York Expanded Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (eBRFSS) Survey and the 2016 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System were used to generate percentages of non-institutionalized adult (18+) NYS residents for various health indicators for a range of geographies.
* [Healthy Neighborhoods Program, Housing Demographics and Conditions, Initial Visits and Revisits: Beginning 2006 - 2009 Funding Cycle](https://health.data.ny.gov/d/jbwf-vnai) - The NYS Healthy Neighborhoods Program (HNP) is a healthy homes program that seeks to reduce the burden of housing-related illness and injury. The dataset includes information about building characteristics, primary respondent demographics and the presence/absence of 34 specific housing conditions for dwellings visited by each county program.
