# mydata.iadb.org health datasets
* [Brazilian Education Panel Databases](https://mydata.iadb.org/d/4k8k-685e) - The Brazilian Schools Panel database and Brazilian Municipal Education Panel Database combine and simplify 20 years' worth of data from the Brazilian School Census, educational testing, and educational indicators. This report provides an introduction to the data and serves as a road map to their strengths and limitations.* [Internal and External Debt: Share in Total Public Debt (Data as of December 2015)](https://mydata.iadb.org/d/x8jt-a9ve) - The availability of valid, comparable, and standardized public debt data is essential for the implementation of sound policies in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC). This is why at the core of the LAC Debt Group initiative is the development of a standardized sovereign debt database to help debt managers, policy makers, and other actors of financial markets analyze the evolution and composition of public debt in LAC and conduct cross-country comparisons. The information of the database is provided by the public debt offices of LAC countries in response to a questionnaire specifically designed to allow comparability of data. The questionnaire, whose response is non-compulsory, is intended to compile up-to-date standardized statistics for objective and homogeneous definitions of public debt. This update corresponds to the period: II Semester 2006 – II Semester 2015.<br><br><b>Click here to access the data: https://mydata.iadb.org/idb/dataset/3bvi-edbq</b></br></br>* [Latin America and the Caribbean Fiscal Burden Database](https://mydata.iadb.org/d/wjva-jgbh) - This database is an ongoing effort to update official fiscal data by the Bank and the Inter-American Center of Tax Administrations, and with the collaboration of OECD and ECLAC. The Equivalent Fiscal Pressure indicator makes use of a methodology that better reflects the particularities of the mobilization of fiscal resources in the region, and consists of three elements: 1) Traditional tax collection, which includes all taxes and fees levied at all levels of government; 2) Compulsory social security contributions, whether public or private, mostly to pension and health systems; and 3) Non-tax revenues derived from the exploitation of natural resources, whether renewable or not; i.e., fees, royalties, dividends paid and net profits from public enterprises. The information is presented broken down by type of tax at every level of government. The series are adjusted with updated GDP values for each country and information that becomes available for municipalities and social security, which tend to have a longer lag period compared to other tax statistics.<br><br><b>Click here to access the data: https://mydata.iadb.org/d/wjva-jgbh</b></br></br>* [Regional System of Standardized Indicators in Peaceful Coexistence and Citizen Security](https://mydata.iadb.org/d/2gtw-dpqa) - The Regional system of standardized Indicators in peaceful coexistence and Citizen Security (RIC) is a project through which 15 countries and two capital cities of Latin America and the Caribbean, have partnered to improve and compare their statistics on crime and violence. This initiative has been promoted and financed by the Inter-American Development Bank - IDB through the Regional Public Goods program under the coordination and execution of CISALVA Institute at the Universidad del Valle in Cali, Colombia. The citizen security indicators were designed, reviewed and approved by the project's partner countries, along with established definitions and methodologies for the standardizing of  the collecting, processing and analyzing stages of the information flow in order to support the quality of the data published. These indicators were reviewed in various regional boards, resulting in the improvement of some of them and the selection of additional citizen security indicators. The indicators are obtained via administrative records and others via surveys. In order to ensure the comparability of the indicators, a standardization process of concepts relating to the variables of time, place, person and circumstance was developed.<br><br><b>Click here to access the data: https://mydata.iadb.org/idb/dataset/2gtw-dpqa</b></br></br>* [Standardized Public Debt Database](https://mydata.iadb.org/d/3bvi-edbq) - The availability of valid, comparable, and standardized public debt data is essential for the implementation of sound policies in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC). This is why at the core of the LAC Debt Group initiative is the development of a standardized sovereign debt database to help debt managers, policy makers, and other actors of financial markets analyze the evolution and composition of public debt in LAC and conduct cross-country comparisons. The information of the database is provided by the public debt offices of LAC countries in response to a questionnaire specifically designed to allow comparability of data. The questionnaire, whose response is non-compulsory, is intended to compile up-to-date standardized statistics for objective and homogeneous definitions of public debt. This update corresponds to the period: II Semester 2006 – II Semester 2016.<br><br><b>Click here to access the data: https://mydata.iadb.org/idb/dataset/3bvi-edbq</b></br></br>* [Maturity Profile of Internal and External Debt (Legislation) (Data as of December 2015)](https://mydata.iadb.org/d/9gdv-639g) - The availability of valid, comparable, and standardized public debt data is essential for the implementation of sound policies in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC). This is why at the core of the LAC Debt Group initiative is the development of a standardized sovereign debt database to help debt managers, policy makers, and other actors of financial markets analyze the evolution and composition of public debt in LAC and conduct cross-country comparisons. The information of the database is provided by the public debt offices of LAC countries in response to a questionnaire specifically designed to allow comparability of data. The questionnaire, whose response is non-compulsory, is intended to compile up-to-date standardized statistics for objective and homogeneous definitions of public debt. This update corresponds to the period: II Semester 2006 – II Semester 2015.<br><br><b>Click here to access the data: https://mydata.iadb.org/idb/dataset/3bvi-edbq</b></br></br>* [Database of Labor Markets and Social Security Information System (SIMS)](https://mydata.iadb.org/d/v2c9-36h7) - The Database of Labor Markets and Social Security Information System (SIMS) is the most important source of information about jobs and pensions in Latin America and the Caribbean.  It encompasses harmonized statistics of 23 countries in the region, assuring the comparability of the indicators among them and also over time.  The dataset includes data since 1990 and it presents 72 main indicators, which can be broken down by age group, gender, zone, level of education and other.  The SIMS contains information in 6 broad categories: population, employment, unemployment, income, social security and poverty. This database seeks to contribute to public policies design based on evidence to strengthen the development of the region. Also, visit the SIMS Website: https://sims.iadb.org