# opendata.ramseycounty.us health datasets
* [Windows Replaced - Lead Abatement Program](https://opendata.ramseycounty.us/d/xu2e-aytk) - Saint Paul - Ramsey County Public Health partners with NeighborWorks Home Partners and the East Side Neighborhood Development Company in the Lead Window Replacement Program. Since the program’s start in 1994, 20,000 windows have been replaced in nearly 1,000 homes.
This program assesses lead risks and replaces deteriorated windows in Ramsey County homes that are occupied by young children. Rental properties receive grants for 50 percent of the lead hazard control costs. An average window replacement for a home with 12 windows would cost the property owner $3,000. Owner-occupied properties receive grants for 75 percent of the lead hazard control costs. An average window replacement for a home with 12 windows would cost the property owner $1,500.
* [Health Risk Factors - Dataset](https://opendata.ramseycounty.us/d/kceg-k3a6) - Dataset showing responses to questions about overall health, health care access/coverage, chronic conditions and behavioral health. The Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) is the nation's premier system of health-related telephone surveys that collect state data about U.S. residents regarding their health-related risk behaviors, chronic health conditions, and use of preventive services. Established in 1984 with 15 states, BRFSS now collects data in all 50 states as well as the District of Columbia and three U.S. territories. BRFSS completes more than 400,000 adult interviews each year, making it the largest continuously conducted health survey system in the world.
* [Home Ownership - Filtered View](https://opendata.ramseycounty.us/d/mbp6-ta6n) - Filtered view of a dataset showing whether a housing unit is owner occupied (the owner or co-owner lives in the unit even if it is mortgaged or not fully paid for).
* [Parcel Points - Spatial Data](https://opendata.ramseycounty.us/d/ueb8-27ke) - Parcel Points are used to represent the one-to-many relationship for Common Interest Communities (CIC), Apartment Ownerships or Condominiums, as well as Manufactured Homes and Apartment Units have with the Parcel Polygons. Polygons associated with CICs, Apartment Ownerships and Condominiums use the smallest Parcel Point PIN as their PIN and have attribute data limited information that is not unit specific (e.g., taxpayer name and address information, tax and estimated market values are omitted). There are a few cases where polygons exist, but there is no associated point, these include common areas associated with a CIC, parks or water; no official PIN exists for these polygons and there is no attribute data.
* [Health Risk Factors - Dataset](https://opendata.ramseycounty.us/d/kceg-k3a6) - Dataset showing responses to questions about overall health, health care access/coverage, chronic conditions and behavioral health. The Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) is the nation's premier system of health-related telephone surveys that collect state data about U.S. residents regarding their health-related risk behaviors, chronic health conditions, and use of preventive services. Established in 1984 with 15 states, BRFSS now collects data in all 50 states as well as the District of Columbia and three U.S. territories. BRFSS completes more than 400,000 adult interviews each year, making it the largest continuously conducted health survey system in the world.
* [Home Ownership - Filtered View](https://opendata.ramseycounty.us/d/mbp6-ta6n) - Filtered view of a dataset showing whether a housing unit is owner occupied (the owner or co-owner lives in the unit even if it is mortgaged or not fully paid for).
* [Life Expectancy - Dataset](https://opendata.ramseycounty.us/d/8qmr-gpjf) - Dataset showing life expectancy at birth reflects the overall mortality level of the population. It summarizes the mortality pattern that prevails across all age groups - children and adolescents, adults and the elderly. Life expectancy is expressed as the average number of years that a newborn is expected to live if current mortality rates continue to apply.
* [Life Expectancy  - Filtered View](https://opendata.ramseycounty.us/d/7z6p-8cw4) - Dataset showing life expectancy at birth reflects the overall mortality level of the population. It summarizes the mortality pattern that prevails across all age groups - children and adolescents, adults and the elderly. Life expectancy is expressed as the average number of years that a newborn is expected to live if current mortality rates continue to apply.
