# open.piercecountywa.gov health datasets
* [Drug-Induced Deaths](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/sv7r-9av3) - Drug-induced deaths by county for Pierce, King, Kitsap, Thurston, Snohomish, and State of Washington. Data is derived from the Community Health Assessment Tool (CHAT), which is supported by the Washington State Department of Health Division of Epidemiology, Health Statistics and Public Health Laboratories. CHAT provides a secure, online query system for population health-based data sets maintained by the Washington State Department of Health. The tool allows users to conduct analyses for community health assessment.
* [Tax Parcels](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/2n4j-id3g) - This polygon data contains the tax parcels in Pierce County. The "Tax Parcel" data includes condominium parcel information. This data does not include mobile home data. Mobile home information is located in the "Mobile Home - points" and "Mobile Home Parks" data sets. If you have questions or need supplemental information, please call the Assessor-Treasurer Operations Team at 253-798-3134. Please read the Disclaimer to and Warranty by Users of Pierce County GIS Data located in the online linkage section located at end of the Metadata Reference Information.Use Code Descriptions: http://www.co.pierce.wa.us/DocumentCenter/Home/View/604
* [Suicide-Related Deaths](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/9czw-92u6) - Suicide-related deaths (per 100,000 population) by county for Pierce, Kitsap, King, Thurston, Snohomish, and State of Washington. Data is derived from the Community Health Assessment Tool (CHAT), which is supported by the Washington State Department of Health Division of Epidemiology, Health Statistics and Public Health Laboratories. CHAT provides a secure, online query system for population health-based data sets maintained by the Washington State Department of Health. The tool allows users to conduct analyses for community health assessment.
* [Opioid-Related Deaths](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/e3s5-6hsf) - Opioid-related deaths (per 100,000 population) by county for Pierce, Kitsap, King, Thurston, Snohomish, and State of Washington. Data is derived from the Community Health Assessment Tool (CHAT), which is supported by the Washington State Department of Health Division of Epidemiology, Health Statistics and Public Health Laboratories. CHAT provides a secure, online query system for population health-based data sets maintained by the Washington State Department of Health. The tool allows users to conduct analyses for community health assessment.
* [Drug-Induced Death Count by County and Year](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/kmkq-u5t6) - Drug-induced deaths by county for Pierce, King, Kitsap, Thurston, Snohomish, and State of Washington. Data is derived from the Community Health Assessment Tool (CHAT), which is supported by the Washington State Department of Health Division of Epidemiology, Health Statistics and Public Health Laboratories. CHAT provides a secure, online query system for population health-based data sets maintained by the Washington State Department of Health. The tool allows users to conduct analyses for community health assessment.
* [Housing Affordability Index](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/5jn5-uefq) - The Housing Affordability Index, calculated by the Runstad Center for Real Estate Studies, measures the ability of a middle-income family to carry the mortgage payments on a median-price home. When the index is 100 there is a balance between the family’s ability to pay and the cost. Higher indexes indicate housing is more affordable. For example, an index of 126 means that a median-income family has 26 percent more income than the bare minimum required to qualify for a mortgage on a median-price home. An index of 80 means that a median-income family has less income than the minimum required.
* [Housing Affordability Index - Benchmark](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/bxm3-5a65) - The Housing Affordability Index, calculated by the Runstad Center for Real Estate Studies, measures the ability of a middle-income family to carry the mortgage payments on a median-price home. When the index is 100 there is a balance between the family’s ability to pay and the cost. Higher indexes indicate housing is more affordable. For example, an index of 126 means that a median-income family has 26 percent more income than the bare minimum required to qualify for a mortgage on a median-price home. An index of 80 means that a median-income family has less income than the minimum required.
* [Housing Affordability Index - Bar Chart](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/9yqv-gjr8) - The Housing Affordability Index, calculated by the Runstad Center for Real Estate Studies, measures the ability of a middle-income family to carry the mortgage payments on a median-price home. When the index is 100 there is a balance between the family’s ability to pay and the cost. Higher indexes indicate housing is more affordable. For example, an index of 126 means that a median-income family has 26 percent more income than the bare minimum required to qualify for a mortgage on a median-price home. An index of 80 means that a median-income family has less income than the minimum required.
* [Tax Parcels](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/2n4j-id3g) - This polygon data contains the tax parcels in Pierce County. The "Tax Parcel" data includes condominium parcel information. This data does not include mobile home data. Mobile home information is located in the "Mobile Home - points" and "Mobile Home Parks" data sets. If you have questions or need supplemental information, please call the Assessor-Treasurer Operations Team at 253-798-3134. Please read the Disclaimer to and Warranty by Users of Pierce County GIS Data located in the online linkage section located at end of the Metadata Reference Information.Use Code Descriptions: http://www.co.pierce.wa.us/DocumentCenter/Home/View/604
* [Percent Increase in Housing Stock](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/c3cc-2hki) - Housing Units (B25001) County and State values are from the ACS 1 Year Survey. A housing unit may be a house, an apartment, a mobile home, a group of rooms or a single room that is occupied (or, if vacant, intended for occupancy) as separate living quarters.
* [Median Household Income](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/476i-da9c) - Median Household Income: The middle value for household income in an area, measured in dollars. (B19013) Census Tract values are from the ACS 5 Year Survey while County and State values are from the ACS 1 Year Survey.
* [Average Commute Time to Work](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/7sk4-b326) - Mean travel time to work (minutes) DP03_0025E County and State values are from the ACS 1 Year Survey.
* [Per Capita Income](https://open.piercecountywa.gov/d/3tjv-ve92) - Per Capita Income in the Past 12 Months (B19301) Universe: Total population County and State values are from the ACS 1 Year Survey.
