# www.data.act.gov.au health datasets
* [Territory Plan Precinct Codes_polygon](https://www.data.act.gov.au/d/gthi-n76i) - The Territory Plan is the key statutory planning document in the ACT, providing the policy framework for the administration of planning in the ACT. The Territory Plan guides the planning and development of the ACT. It is changed from time to time due to social, economic and environmental reasons. The Territory Plan is used to manage development, in particular the way in which land is used and what can be built. It is used in the process of assessing development applications and to guide the development of new estate areas (future urban land). Land in the ACT is divided into sections and blocks. The blocks are zoned and the zoning determines the form of development on a block. There are 23 different zones. The Territory Plan map shows all these zones as different colours. The purpose of the Territory Plan map is to show the zones and overlays that apply to land in the ACT, in accordance with requirements under the Planning and Development Act 2007. Creative Commons License Creative Common By Attribution 4.0 (Australian Capital Territory), Please read Data Terms and Conditions statement before data use.
* [ACT Deaths - Accidental falls (W00-W19)](https://www.data.act.gov.au/d/3qsa-imai) - The data contained in this dataset is based on the Cause Of Death Unit Record File (CODURF) provided by the Australian Coordinating Registry (ACR), the data has been aggregated based on either a single or grouped ICD-10* classification. The ACT deaths data is collected and maintained by the ACT registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages (ACT RBDM), which records all medical conditions that directly caused or contributed to the death and were applicable, ie the circumstances surrounding a death (eg. motor vehicle accident). The National Coronial Information System (NCIS) records and stores information relating to coroner certified deaths for the purposes of retrieval, analysis, interpretation and dissemination to allow for informed death and injury prevention activities. The Australian Coordinating Registry (ACR) is an agency appointed by state and territory RBDMs and coroners to coordinate and manage approval of coded deaths data. *The International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems Tenth Revision The data is presented by the ACT Government for the purpose of disseminating information for the benefit of the public. The ACT Government has taken great care to ensure the information in this report is as correct and accurate as possible. Whilst the information is considered to be true and correct at the date of publication, changes in circumstances after the time of publication may impact on the accuracy of the information. Differences in statistical methods and calculations, data updates and guidelines may result in the information contained in this report varying from previously published information.
* [ACT Deaths - Parkinson's disease (G20)](https://www.data.act.gov.au/d/n645-aixr) - The data contained in this dataset is based on the Cause Of Death Unit Record File (CODURF) provided by the Australian Coordinating Registry (ACR), the data has been aggregated based on either a single or grouped ICD-10* classification. The ACT deaths data is collected and maintained by the ACT registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages (ACT RBDM), which records all medical conditions that directly caused or contributed to the death and were applicable, ie the circumstances surrounding a death (eg. motor vehicle accident). The National Coronial Information System (NCIS) records and stores information relating to coroner certified deaths for the purposes of retrieval, analysis, interpretation and dissemination to allow for informed death and injury prevention activities. The Australian Coordinating Registry (ACR) is an agency appointed by state and territory RBDMs and coroners to coordinate and manage approval of coded deaths data. *The International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems Tenth Revision The data is presented by the ACT Government for the purpose of disseminating information for the benefit of the public. The ACT Government has taken great care to ensure the information in this report is as correct and accurate as possible. Whilst the information is considered to be true and correct at the date of publication, changes in circumstances after the time of publication may impact on the accuracy of the information. Differences in statistical methods and calculations, data updates and guidelines may result in the information contained in this report varying from previously published information.
* [National Health Survey: First Results (NHS)](https://www.data.act.gov.au/d/t978-qm62) - National Health Survey: First Results, Summary health characteristics - ACT and Australia 2014-2015 Please note the following: " " not available for publication but included in totals where applicable, unless otherwise indicated # Proportion has a margin of error >10 percentage points which should be considered when using this information. Cells in this table containing data have been randomly adjusted to avoid the release of confidential data. Discrepancies may occur between sums of the component items and totals. Please note: - Body Mass Index is derived from measured height and weight. In 2014-15, 26.8% of respondents aged 18 years and over did not have their height, weight or both measured. For these respondents, imputation was used to obtain height, weight and BMI scores. - In 2014-15, 28.8% of respondents aged 18 years and over did not have their waist measured. For these respondents, imputation was used to obtain waist. For more information see Appendix 2: Physical measurements in the National Health Survey. - A waist circumference of 94 cm or more for men or 80 cm or more for women. - A waist circumference of 102 cm or more for men or 88 cm or more for women. The data is presented by the ACT Government for the purpose of disseminating information for the benefit of the public. The ACT Government has taken great care to ensure the information in this report is as correct and accurate as possible. Whilst the information is considered to be true and correct at the date of publication, changes in circumstances after the time of publication may impact on the accuracy of the information. Differences in statistical methods and calculations, data updates and guidelines may result in the information contained in this report varying from previously published information.
* [Home Education Data for the ACT - 2013 snapshot](https://www.data.act.gov.au/d/wzex-waq5) - A dataset detailing the number of students in the ACT receiving home education. There are a total of 17 part-time students and 178 full-time students in home education. This is a historical snapshot dataset from 2013 and no new data will be added.
* [ACT Deaths - Dementia & related disorders (F00-F03,G30-G32)](https://www.data.act.gov.au/d/7bp3-7gk9) - The data contained in this dataset is based on the Cause Of Death Unit Record File (CODURF) provided by the Australian Coordinating Registry (ACR), the data has been aggregated based on either a single or grouped ICD-10* classification. The ACT deaths data is collected and maintained by the ACT registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages (ACT RBDM), which records all medical conditions that directly caused or contributed to the death and were applicable, ie the circumstances surrounding a death (eg. motor vehicle accident). The National Coronial Information System (NCIS) records and stores information relating to coroner certified deaths for the purposes of retrieval, analysis, interpretation and dissemination to allow for informed death and injury prevention activities. The Australian Coordinating Registry (ACR) is an agency appointed by state and territory RBDMs and coroners to coordinate and manage approval of coded deaths data. *The International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems Tenth Revision The data is presented by the ACT Government for the purpose of disseminating information for the benefit of the public. The ACT Government has taken great care to ensure the information in this report is as correct and accurate as possible. Whilst the information is considered to be true and correct at the date of publication, changes in circumstances after the time of publication may impact on the accuracy of the information. Differences in statistical methods and calculations, data updates and guidelines may result in the information contained in this report varying from previously published information.
* [Territory Plan Overlay Zones_line](https://www.data.act.gov.au/d/varw-txpw) - The Territory Plan is the key statutory planning document in the ACT, providing the policy framework for the administration of planning in the ACT. The Territory Plan guides the planning and development of the ACT. It is changed from time to time due to social, economic and environmental reasons. The Territory Plan is used to manage development, in particular the way in which land is used and what can be built. It is used in the process of assessing development applications and to guide the development of new estate areas (future urban land). Land in the ACT is divided into sections and blocks. The blocks are zoned and the zoning determines the form of development on a block. There are 23 different zones. The Territory Plan map shows all these zones as different colours. The purpose of the Territory Plan map is to show the zones and overlays that apply to land in the ACT, in accordance with requirements under the Planning and Development Act 2007. Creative Commons License Creative Common By Attribution 4.0 (Australian Capital Territory), Please read Data Terms and Conditions statement before data use
* [Territory Plan Overlay Zones_polygon](https://www.data.act.gov.au/d/eb5i-r7dp) - The Territory Plan is the key statutory planning document in the ACT, providing the policy framework for the administration of planning in the ACT. The Territory Plan guides the planning and development of the ACT. It is changed from time to time due to social, economic and environmental reasons. The Territory Plan is used to manage development, in particular the way in which land is used and what can be built. It is used in the process of assessing development applications and to guide the development of new estate areas (future urban land). Land in the ACT is divided into sections and blocks. The blocks are zoned and the zoning determines the form of development on a block. There are 23 different zones. The Territory Plan map shows all these zones as different colours. The purpose of the Territory Plan map is to show the zones and overlays that apply to land in the ACT, in accordance with requirements under the Planning and Development Act 2007. Creative Commons License Creative Common By Attribution 4.0 (Australian Capital Territory), Please read Data Terms and Conditions statement before data use.
